Just being around you gives me a happiness that no one else could ever give me. You have given me a love that I had never known before .I love being with you and cannot imagine a world without you in it. Each morning, I wake up and thank God that you have been a part of my life. I just cannot find the words to tell you how happy I am that we met and got together. You have been the rock I turned to during difficulties and the guiding light that lit the way whenever I was lost. I want to tell you that my love is undying and eternal, but I can’t find a way to express it properly. I know that my love is enduring enough to last a lifetime, and I feel blessed that you are a part of my life. I wake up each day and bounce out of bed because I know that I will get to see or talk to you during the day.  I promise that I will always love you and keep you dear in my heart. I will be there for you whenever you need me and will love you no matter where life ends up taking us. You are my soul mate, and I cannot exist without you by me. I love you.

I Love being with you. There is no one else I'd rather be with you. You make me smile in a way no one else can. You're the first thing I wanna see in the morning, and the last thing I wanna see at night. I've never loved anyone the way I love you. You're my other half. My love ,my best boyfriend. My happy ever after. You're everything I have ever hoped and wished for. I love you and only you.

It feels like we just met yesterday, but at the same time I feel I have known you all my life. I love us. We’re the cutest .we make the perfect couple. We understand each other. We listen to each other. We inspire each other Everything else feel meaningless because the only thing that matters is You. I would be lost without you. Thank you for everything you have done for me

As I am writing this letter, I have thousands of thoughts running through my mind.
Through this letter I wanted to express my love for you that is honestly hard to put into words.
Do you know how much you mean to me?
There isn't a day that goes by when my mind isn't thinking of you.
You are the reason behind every piece of joy in my life.You are the one that has lifted me up to show me the beauty of life.There is no other person in this world that could have done that for me.
I want to give all of the happiness the world could possibly give.
You are my dream come true- you are the love of my life.

I know you are the only one for me. When I'am away from you, you are the one who is continuously on my mind.
From the moment when I first saw you, I know our friendship was going to blossom into something beautiful.
You are the true love in my life.
You are the only one who can make me feel the way you do.I look forward to the life we will be living together.
It is you that I want to sit next to as we are ageing and it is you I want to rest next to.

I hate being apart from you, but our long distance love gives me something to look forward to each and every day. I keep counting down the moments until I get to feel your arms wrapped around me again, until I get to fall asleep to the sound of your soft breathing. I love you and I miss you — Not seeing you has been slowly driving me insane. I cannot wait until the day when we live together.

Even after all of this time, I still get butterflies when you smile at me. I still feel light as air when you press your lips against me. Just thinking about you on top of me, trailing kisses across my chest and stomach and thighs, is making me want you. Badly. I hope we can fix that tonight. What do you say?

We have been seeing each other for a long time now but I was never able to express my love to you. This time, I am writing this letter to firmly express my heart out in front of you. I want to say that you are the driving force of my life who keeps me sane when I am agitated at times. You are the magician who knows the ways of calming me down and keeps her cool throughout. Your charms are beguiling and it is because of them that I have started loving you a thousand folds more. I have started adoring you more and more each day. I want our relationship to flourish this way forever and ever. And I am going to keep loving you more each and everyday.

There's no one who can take your place.
The way you smile, the way you look, the way you always know what I am thinking about,
the way you gave me hug when all was needed, the way you cry, laugh, listen and love.
You share your hopes and dreams and help me shared mine; you touch my life and there will never be another you.
You have touched me more profoundly than I ever thought you could touch me.
I love you.

You are the one who has given meaning to my life and I am very glad that our relationship has gone through a paradise visit from when it started. The stars are waiting to come out at night to remind us about the sparkling moments of our life.
May our love be a remarkable one which reach the moon and stars and bring a new meaning to life.

We both know we have a very special relationship -Without ever needing to say so — how in love we are.

But now I want to say you are very precious to me. I love to be close to you. You are more beautiful than sunshine, more precious than gold. You are sweeter than candy and more lovely than the moon. You are exquisite and delightful, special and unique. And what’s most astounding of all, you want to be with me.

I remember the first time I met you. It was one of the best moments of my life. I couldn't understand why you were so special to me. But the time we spent together was so enchanting that each moment without you feel like a punishment to me. I only know how difficult it was for me to restrain myself from rushing to you and to concentrate on my work. Sometimes when I couldn't bear your absence, I would call you up. And somewhere along the way, I myself opened up without even realizing it. We slowly developed a deep love, and eventually we both knew it. It was so beautiful a feeling

I am madly in love with you, my darling. 

The moment that I first met you,
I knew with absolute certainty and clarity that we were meant to be.
I wasn't being presumptuous when I thought so, 
for there was this voice within my soul that just validated this thought. 
This voice found validation the day you asked me out and I,
with absolute confidence in that voice, said yes to you.
Since that very day till today, 
I haven't regretted a moment in your company and that is how I know that I am lucky to have found you.
You are my every dream come true. 

I wanted to write you a love letter, and a thank you note Maybe it’s both. I want to thank you for all of the hugs you have offered me to squeeze the sadness out and all of the pep talks you have given me when I doubted myself. Most of all, thank you for being my partner. Thank you for being my best friend in the world.

You entered my heart Slowly, quietly and passionately
Your love spread through me.
Now Why are you so perfect,

God only knows..,

In every direction, there is you – just you.
My emotions are rising and I am facing short of breath;
My heart is beating fast
What madness, what obsession…
What can I say of my state now?
My heart, my soul, my whole world,
you are my only desire.

My sweetheart only You!!

I adore you. I long to hold you close to me. I feel such warmth and comfort when I am in your arms. I am relaxed and content when we sit on the couch and talk. My heart is at peace when lay on the floor and cuddle. My heart quivers when you touch my face and my passion flows when you touch my lips. I get immense pleasure from gently touching your face and feel tremendous yearning and passion when I touch your lips. I long to be near you. I want nothing more than to be close to you.

Since the time I met you, I must that you that I have never felt so divine in my entire life. I never thought I was capable of experiencing such type of emotions but I realized that just a look of you makes me feel bliss. You bring with you the warmth of spring, the joy of rain and the calmness of summers. My world has turned upside down since the time you have stepped into my life. You make me feel truly alive. All I want from you is the care and love I am longing for. Promise me that you will be by my side forever.

Hey, as you know things aren't working well with us, here I am writing this letter to you to let you know what I feel. Baby, I love you immensely. All I think about is you and the moments which make you mine. Babe, I am sorry if I was being too stubborn yesterday. Just remember that I am so much in love with you and I can't wait to see you in the evening. I am living the best time of my life with you and I don't want to have a fight. All I want is to love you and be with you. I love this life which we share.

I am so sorry I initiated a fight with you. Today, the whole day I was constantly thinking of you, you were on my mind every now and then. It is so crazy about me that today every little thing reminded me of you. I was imagining you by my side and your smile, your voice, your laugh giggled in my ears. I was thinking of you and felt the touch of your hands over mine. I am so sorry I fought with you. Your presence in my life completes me and makes me feel alive. Since the time you left the house, I feel deserted and unloved. Your name is at the edge of my lips since morning. Please forgive me and love me more. I feel so miserable without you. My fondness for you has no bounds. Come and hug me after reading this s I want you in my arms right now. 

It is important you read this letter, because the reason to write it will convince you of many things.

It was two years ago that you first told me you loved me and asked me to be your girlfriend. Remembering our first kiss is remembering since when my heart beats for you. Knowing you are with me makes my life a dream come true. I'm the luckiest woman in the world as I'm in love with my best friend.

My love for you have grown deeper. Whenever something good happens, you're the first person I want to share with.. When I am sad, I know that I can count on you to take me in your arms and tell me everything will be alright.

I just wanted let you know that I love you more than even the most heartfelt words can express.

You were already on my mind when I woke up this morning. I just can't stop thinking about you. You are the most important person in my life. So, I just wanted to say I love you, and I can't wait to see you again.

Just being with you has made all my dreams come true, and I want to do everything I can to make you feel that way too. You deserve to be treasured for being the sweetest, kindest, most thoughtful boyfriend any girl could ask for, and believe me, I do treasure youYours only,

Just a moment ago I thought about you and my heart was filled with gratitude. So before another moment goes by I want to say thank you.
Thank you for the late night laughs and the early morning kisses.
Thank you for holding my hand throughout this life and proving that good men do still exist. 
Thank you for your love and friendship. And most of all, thank you for the pleasure of being your wife.

If only I were a clever woman, I could describe to you my gorgeous bird, how you unite in yourself the beauties of form, plumage, and song!
I would tell you that you are the greatest marvel of all ages, and I should only be speaking the simple truth. But to put all this into suitable words, my superb one, I should require a voice far more harmonious than that which is bestowed upon my species –
I will not tell you to what degree you are dazzling and to the birds of sweet song who, as you know, are none the less beautiful and appreciative.
I love you, I love you. My Victor; I can not reiterate it too often; I can never express it as much as I feel it.
I recognize you in all the beauty that surrounds me in form, in colour, in perfume, in harmonious sound: all of these mean you to me. You are superior to all. I see and admire - you are all!
You are not only the solar spectrum with the seven luminous colours, but the sun himself, that illumines, warms, and revivifies! This is what you are, and I am the lowly woman that adores you.

No, nothing has the power to part me from you; our love is based upon virtue, and will last as long as our lives.
Adieu, there is nothing that I will not brave for your sake; you deserve much more than that.

I belong to you; there is really no other way of expressing it, and that is not strong enough.
How could I, fool that I am, go on sitting in my office, or here at home, instead of leaping onto a train with my eyes shut and opening them only when I am with you?

I already love in you your beauty, but I am only beginning to love in you that which is eternal and ever precious - your heart, your soul.
Beauty one could get to know and fall in love with in one hour and cease to love it as speedily; but the soul one must learn to know. 

I Love you because I love you,
Because it would be impossible
for me nit to love you.
I love you without question,
without calculation, without reason good or bad,
faithfully, with all my heart and soul, and every faculty.
Believe it, for it is true.
If you cannot believe, I being at your side,
I will make a drastic effort to force you to do so.

I love you.
You are truly the one for me.
The day would not be complete without you.
You are my smile, my tears,
my laughter, my heart, my soul,
my love, my life.
You are my everything.
I never want to be without you.
I want to grow old with you.

The day when I started loving you is the day that I lost myself.
Your love has so much power that I can be what you meant to be.
Your love has given me the start to foresee.
The love that you have given me is truly selfless.
When you don't see me baby I feel so restless.
Not a single moment I would like to stay without you as you
know that you do for me and ways which I so want to see.
My baby you are and will remain in my destiny.
I love you so much.

You are my only love.
You have me completely in your power.
I know and feel that if I am to write anything fine and noble in the future I shall do so only by listening at the doors of your heart.
I would like to go through life side by side with you, telling you more and more until we grew to be one being together until the hour should come for us to die.

You fear, sometimes, I do not love you so much as you wish?
My dear Girl I love you ever and ever and without reserve.
The more I have known you the more have I lov'd. In every way - even my jealousies have been agonies of Love, in the hottest fit I ever had I would have died for you.
You are always new. The last of your kisses was ever the sweetest; the last smile the brightest; the last movement the gracefullest.
When you pass'd my window home yesterday, I was fill'd with as much admiration as if I had then seen you for the first time. Even if you did not love me I could not help an entire devotion to you: how much more deeply then must I feel for you knowing you love me.
My Mind has been the most discontented and restless one that ever was put into a body too small for it.
I never felt my Mind repose upon anything with complete and undistracted enjoyment - upon no person but you.
When you are in the room my thoughts never fly out of window: you always concentrate my whole senses.

In that word, beautiful in all languages, but most so in yours--Amor mio--is comprised my existence here and hereafter.
I feel I exist here, and I feel I shall exist hereafter,--to what purpose you will decide; my destiny rests with you,
But I more than love you, and cannot cease to love you.
Think of me, sometimes, when the Alps and ocean divide us,--but they never will, unless you wish it.


I have a thousand images of you in an hour; all different and all coming back to the same... And we love. And we've got the most amazing secrets and understandings. Noel, whom I love, who is so beautiful and wonderful. I think of you eating omlette on the ground. I think of you once against a sky line: and on the hill that Sunday morning.
And that night was the most wonderful of all. The light and the shadow and quietness and the rain and the wood. And you. You are so beautiful and wonderful that I daren't write to you... And kinder than God. Your arms and lips and hair and shoulders and voice - you.

Dearest, - I wish I had the gift of making rhymes, for methinks there is poetry in my head and heart since I have been in love with you.
You are a Poem.
Of what sort, then? Epic?
Mercy on me, no! A sonnet?
No; for that is too labored and artificial.
You are a sort of sweet, simple, gay, pathetic ballad, which Nature is singing, sometimes with tears, sometimes with smiles, and sometimes with intermingled smiles and tears.


I wake filled with thoughts of you. Your portrait and the intoxicating evening which we spent yesterday have left my senses in turmoil. Sweet, incomparable Josephine, what a strange effect you have on my heart! Are you angry? Do I see you looking sad? Are you worried?... My soul aches with sorrow, and there can be no rest for you lover; but is there still more in store for me when, yielding to the profound feelings which overwhelm me, I draw from your lips, from your heart a love which consumes me with fire? Ah! it was last night that I fully realized how false an image of you your portrait gives!
You are leaving at noon; I shall see you in three hours.

The world may never put a face with this mysterious woman or know the circumstances of their affair and his letters are all that is left of a love as intensely passionate as the music for which Beethoven became famous. Compositions such as the Moonlight Sonata as well as Beethoven's many symphonies express eloquently the tragedy of a relationship never publicly realized.

My angel, my all, my very self -- only a few words today and at that with your pencil -- not till tomorrow will my lodgings be definitely determined upon -- what a useless waste of time. Why this deep sorrow where necessity speaks -- can our love endure except through sacrifices -- except through not demanding everything -- can you change it that you are not wholly mine, I not wholly thine?

Oh, God! look out into the beauties of nature and comfort yourself with that which must be -- love demands everything and that very justly -- that it is with me so far as you are concerned, and you with me. If we were wholly united you would feel the pain of it as little as I!

Now a quick change to things internal from things external. We shall surely see each other; moreover, I cannot communicate to you the observations I have made during the last few days touching my own life -- if our hearts were always close together I would make none of the kind. My heart is full of many things to say to you - Ah! -- there are moments when I feel that speech is nothing after all -- cheer up -- remain my true, only treasure, my all as I am yours; the gods must send us the rest that which shall be best for us.

I have been asking myself every moment if such happiness is not a dream.
It seems to me that what I feel is not of earth. I cannot yet comprehend this cloudless heaven. My whole soul is yours.
My Adele, why is there no word for this but joy? Is it because there is no power in human speech to express such happiness?sometimes I tremble lest I should suddenly awaken from this dream divine.
Oh, now you are mine! At last you are mine! Soon -- in a few months, perhaps, my angel will sleep in my arms, will awaken in my arms, will live there.
All your thoughts at all moments, all your looks will be for me; all my thoughts, all my moments, all my looks, will be for you!
Adieu, my angel, my beloved Adele! Adieu!
Still I am far from you, but I can dream of you.
Soon perhaps you will be at my side.
Adieu; pardon the delirium of your husband who embraces you, and who adores you, both for this life and another.

You have touched me more profoundly than I thought even you could have touched me - my heart was full when you came here today. Henceforward I am yours for everything. 

The passion of love has need to be productive of much delight; as where it takes thorough possession of the man, it almost unfits him for anything else.
The lover who is certain of an equal return of affection, is surely the happiest of men; but he who is a prey to the horrors of anxiety and dreaded disappointment, is a being whose situation is by no means enviable.
Of this, my present experience gives me much proof.
To me, amusement seems impertinent, and business intrusion, while you alone engross every faculty of my mind.
May I request you to drop me a line, to inform me when I may wait upon you?
For pity's sake, do; and let me have it soon.
In the meantime allow me, in all the artless sincerity of truth, to assure you that I truly am,
my dearest Madam,
your ardent lover, and devoted humble servant

f all that I have said and done, and am still but too ready to say and do, have not sufficiently proved what my real feelings are and must be ever towards you, my love, I have no other proof to offer.
My Dearest & Most Beloved Friend
Bless you -- ever & even more than ever.
Your most attached

Is there anything on earth or heaven would have made me so happy as to have made you mine long ago? and not less now than then, but more than ever at this time -- you know I would with pleasure give up all here and all beyond the grave for you
I was and am yours, freely and most entirely, to obey, to honour, love --and fly with you when, where, and how you yourself might and may determine.

I will cover you with love when next I see you, with caresses, with ecstasy.
When you are old, I want you to recall those few hours, I want your dry bones to quiver with joy when you think of them.

I love you no longer; on the contrary, I detest you. you are a wretch, truly perverse, truly stupid, a real Cinderella. You never write to me at all, you do not love your husband; you know the pleasure that your letters give him yet you cannot even manage to write him half a dozen lines, dashed off in a moment! What then do you do all day, Madame? What business is so vital that it robs you of the time to write to your faithful lover? What attachment can be stifling and pushing aside the love, the tender and constant love which you promised him? Who can this wonderful new lover be who takes up your every moment, rules your days and prevents you from devoting your attention to your husband? 
Beware, Josephine; one fine night the doors will be broken down and there I shall be. In truth, I am worried, my love, to have no news from you; write me a four page letter instantly made up from those delightful words which fill my heart with emotion and joy. I hope to hold you in my arms before long, when I shall lavish upon you a million kisses, burning as the equatorial sun.

Dearest if you are as fond of me as I am of you...nothing human could keep us long apart.
This last week has seemed an eternity tome; Oh, I would give my soul for another of those days we had together not long ago...
My first and only love...Believe me ever to be
Yrs devotedly and lovingly,

My dearest, 
When two souls, which have sought each other for, however long in the throng, have finally found each other ...a union, fiery and pure as they themselves are... begins on earth and continues forever in heaven. 
This union is love, true love, ... a religion, which deifies the loved one, whose life comes from devotion and passion, and for which the greatest sacrifices are the sweetest delights. This is the love which you inspire in me... Your soul is made to love with the purity and passion of angels; but perhaps it can only love another angel, in which case I must tremble with apprehension.

I am looking forward to holding you once again in my loving arms. You are beautiful. You are wonderful. You are special. You are mine!!!

t's you and me, my sweetheart, just You and Me ...
I want you to know that no words can describe how deeply you touch my heart.
I tried so hard to put my thoughts on a paper, 
but words escape every time I try. I only know that I Love you truly ... 
I Love you deeply, more and more each day. 
I don't know what I would do without you. You and Me, only you and me...

Only once in your life, I truly believe, you find someone who can completely turn your world around. You tell them things that you’ve never shared with another soul and they absorb everything you say and actually want to hear more. You share hopes for the future, dreams that will never come true, goals that were never achieved and the many disappointments life has thrown at you. When something wonderful happens, you can’t wait to tell them about it, knowing they will share in your excitement. They are not embarrassed to cry with you when you are hurting or laugh with you when you make a fool of yourself. Never do they hurt your feelings or make you feel like you are not good enough, but rather they build you up and show you the things about yourself that make you special and even beautiful. There is never any pressure, jealousy or competition but only a quiet calmness when they are around. You can be yourself and not worry about what they will think of you because they love you for who you are. The things that seem insignificant to most people such as a note, song or walk become invaluable treasures kept safe in your heart to cherish forever. Memories of your childhood come back and are so clear and vivid it’s like being young again. Colours seem brighter and more brilliant. Laughter seems part of daily life where before it was infrequent or didn’t exist at all. A phone call or two during the day helps to get you through a long day’s work and always brings a smile to your face. In their presence, there’s no need for continuous conversation, but you find you’re quite content in just having them nearby. Things that never interested you before become fascinating because you know they are important to this person who is so special to you. You think of this person on every occasion and in everything you do. Simple things bring them to mind like a pale blue sky, gentle wind or even a storm cloud on the horizon. You open your heart knowing that there’s a chance it may be broken one day and in opening your heart, you experience a love and joy that you never dreamed possible. You find that being vulnerable is the only way to allow your heart to feel true pleasure that’s so real it scares you. You find strength in knowing you have a true friend and possibly a soul mate who will remain loyal to the end. Life seems completely different, exciting and worthwhile. Your only hope and security is in knowing that they are a part of your life.

I'm selfish, impatient and a little insecure. I make mistakes, I am out of control and at times hard to handle. But if you can't handle me at my worst, then you sure as hell don't deserve me at my best.

You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listening,
And live like it's heaven on earth.

You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.

You may not be her first, her last, or her only. She loved before she may love again. But if she loves you now, what else matters? She's not perfect—you aren't either, and the two of you may never be perfect together but if she can make you laugh, cause you to think twice, and admit to being human and making mistakes, hold onto her and give her the most you can. She may not be thinking about you every second of the day, but she will give you a part of her that she knows you can break—her heart. So don't hurt her, don't change her, don't analyze and don't expect more than she can give. Smile when she makes you happy, let her know when she makes you mad, and miss her when she's not there.

People think a soul mate is your perfect fit, and that's what everyone wants. But a true soul mate is a mirror, the person who shows you everything that is holding you back, the person who brings you to your own attention so you can change your life. 

A true soul mate is probably the most important person you'll ever meet, because they tear down your walls and smack you awake. But to live with a soul mate forever? Nah. Too painful. Soul mates, they come into your life just to reveal another layer of yourself to you, and then leave. 

A soul mates purpose is to shake you up, tear apart your ego a little bit, show you your obstacles and addictions, break your heart open so new light can get in, make you so desperate and out of control that you have to transform your life, then introduce you to your spiritual master...

To love at all is to be vulnerable. Love anything and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact you must give it to no one, not even an animal. Wrap it carefully round with hobbies and little luxuries; avoid all entanglements. Lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket, safe, dark, motionless, airless, it will change. It will not be broken; it will become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeemable. To love is to be vulnerable.”

I've been making a list of the things they don't teach you at school. They don't teach you how to love somebody. They don't teach you how to be famous. They don't teach you how to be rich or how to be poor. They don't teach you how to walk away from someone you don't love any longer. They don't teach you how to know what's going on in someone else's mind. They don't teach you what to say to someone who's dying. They don't teach you anything worth knowing.

He’s not perfect. You aren’t either, and the two of you will never be perfect. But if he can make you laugh at least once, causes you to think twice, and if he admits to being human and making mistakes, hold onto him and give him the most you can. He isn’t going to quote poetry, he’s not thinking about you every moment, but he will give you a part of him that he knows you could break. Don’t hurt him, don’t change him, and don’t expect for more than he can give. Don’t analyze. Smile when he makes you happy, yell when he makes you mad, and miss him when he’s not there. Love hard when there is love to be had. Because perfect guys don’t exist, but there’s always one guy that is perfect for you.

I carry your heart with me (I carry it in my heart)I am never without it (anywhere
I go you go, my dear; and whatever is done by only me is your doing, my darling)
I fear no fate (for you are my fate, my sweet)I want no world (for beautiful you are my world, my true)
and it's you are whatever a moon has always meant and whatever a sun will always sing is you

here is the deepest secret nobody knows
(here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud and the sky of the sky of a tree called life; which grows
higher than the soul can hope or mind can hide)
and this is the wonder that's keeping the stars apart

I carry your heart (I carry it in my heart)

And now I’m looking at you,” he said, “and you’re asking me if I still want you, as if I could stop loving you. As if I would want to give up the thing that makes me stronger than anything else ever has. I never dared give much of myself to anyone before – bits of myself to the Lightwoods, to Isabelle and Alec, but it took years to do it – but, Clary, since the first time I saw you, I have belonged to you completely. I still do. If you want me.




Life will break you. Nobody can protect you from that, and living alone won't either, for solitude will also break you with its yearning. You have to love. You have to feel. It is the reason you are here on earth. You are here to risk your heart. You are here to be swallowed up. And when it happens that you are broken, or betrayed, or left, or hurt, or death brushes near, let yourself sit by an apple tree and listen to the apples falling all around you in heaps, wasting their sweetness. Tell yourself you tasted as many as you could.

There are two basic motivating forces: fear and love. When we are afraid, we pull back from life. When we are in love, we open to all that life has to offer with passion, excitement, and acceptance. We need to learn to love ourselves first, in all our glory and our imperfections. If we cannot love ourselves, we cannot fully open to our ability to love others or our potential to create. Evolution and all hopes for a better world rest in the fearlessness and open-hearted vision of people who embrace life.

We live and breathe words. .... It was books that made me feel that perhaps I was not completely alone. They could be honest with me, and I with them. Reading your words, what you wrote, how you were lonely sometimes and afraid, but always brave; the way you saw the world, its colors and textures and sounds, I felt--I felt the way you thought, hoped, felt, dreamt. I felt I was dreaming and thinking and feeling with you. I dreamed what you dreamed, wanted what you wanted--and then I realized that truly I just wanted you.

Everyone, at some point in their lives, wakes up in the middle of the night with the feeling that they are all alone in the world, and that nobody loves them now and that nobody will ever love them, and that they will never have a decent night's sleep again and will spend their lives wandering blearily around a loveless landscape, hoping desperately that their circumstances will improve, but suspecting, in their heart of hearts, that they will remain unloved forever. The best thing to do in these circumstances is to wake somebody else up, so that they can feel this way, too.


I love you for what you are, but I love you yet more for what you are going to be.
I love you not so much for your realities as for your ideals. I pray for your desires that they may be great, rather than for your satisfactions, which may be so hazardously little.
A satisfied flower is one whose petals are about to fall. The most beautiful rose is one hardly more than a bud wherein the pangs and ecstasies of desire are working for a larger and finer growth. Not always shall you be what you are now. You are going forward toward something great. I am on the way with you and therefore I love you.

You are a ukulele beyond my microphone
You are a Yukon beyond my Micronesia
You are a union beyond my meiosis
You are a unicycle beyond my migration
You are a universe beyond my mitochondria
You are a Eucharist beyond my Miles Davis
You are a euphony beyond my myocardiogram
You are a unicorn beyond my Minotaur
You are a eureka beyond my maitai
You are a Yuletide beyond my minesweeper
You are a euphemism beyond my myna bird


The milkman; which remembers to plant bulbs;
Which answers letters; which knows the way
The money goes; which deals with dentists

And Road Fund Tax and meeting trains,
And postcards to the lonely; which upholds

The permanently rickety elaborate
Structures of living, which is Atlas.

And maintenance is the sensible side of love,
Which knows what time and weather are doing
To my brickwork; insulates my faulty wiring;
Laughs at my dryrotten jokes; remembers
My need for gloss and grouting; which keeps
My suspect edifice upright in air,
As Atlas did the sky.

When you come to me, unbidden,
Beckoning me
To long-ago rooms,
Where memories lie.

Offering me, as to a child, an attic,
Gatherings of days too few.
Baubles of stolen kisses.
Trinkets of borrowed loves.
Trunks of secret words,

I CRY.

When, in disgrace with fortune and men’s eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And look upon myself and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man’s art and that man’s scope
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven’s gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.

Sometimes she is like sherry, like the sun through a vessel of glass,
Like light through an oriel window in a room of yellow wood;
Sometimes she is the colour of lions, of sand in the fire of noon,
Sometimes as bruised with shadows as the afternoon.

Sometimes she moves like rivers, sometimes like trees;
Or tranced and fixed like South Pole silences;
Sometimes she is beauty, sometimes fury, sometimes neither,
Sometimes nothing, drained of meaning, null as water.

Sometimes, when she makes me pea-soup or plays me Schumann,
I love her one way; sometimes I love her another
More disturbing way when she opens her mouth in the dark;
Sometimes I like her with camellias, sometimes with a parsley-stalk,
Sometimes I like her swimming in a mirror on the wall;
Sometimes I don’t like her at all.

When we are old and these rejoicing veins
Are frosty channels to a muted stream,
And out of all our burning their remains
No feeblest spark to fire us, even in dream,
This be our solace: that it was not said
When we were young and warm and in our prime,
Upon our couch we lay as lie the dead,
Sleeping away the unreturning time.
O sweet, O heavy-lidded, O my love,
When morning strikes her spear upon the land,
And we must rise and arm us and reprove
The insolent daylight with a steady hand,
Be not discountenanced if the knowing know
We rose from rapture but an hour ago.

She is neither pink nor pale,
And she never will be all mine;
She learned her hands in a fairy-tale,
And her mouth on a valentine.

She has more hair than she needs;
In the sun ’tis a woe to me!
And her voice is a string of coloured beads,
Or steps leading into the sea.

She loves me all that she can,
And her ways to my ways resign;
But she was not made for any man,
And she never will be all mine.

When, in disgrace with fortune and men’s eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And look upon myself and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man’s art and that man’s scope
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven’s gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.

What sound was that?

I turn away, into the shaking room.

What was that sound that came in on the dark?
What is this maze of light it leaves us in?
What is this stance we take,
To turn away and then turn back?
What did we hear?

It was the breath we took when we first met.

Listen. It is here.


I think I was searching for treasures or stones
in the clearest of pools
when your face…

when your face,
like the moon in a well
where I might wish…

might well wish
for the iced fire of your kiss;
only on water my lips, where your face…

where your face was reflected, lovely,
not really there when I turned
to look behind at the emptying air…

the emptying air.

It’s all I have to bring today—
This, and my heart beside—
This, and my heart, and all the fields—
And all the meadows wide—
Be sure you count—should I forget
Some one the sum could tell—
This, and my heart, and all the Bees
Which in the Clover dwell.

I came to you one rainless August night.
You taught me how to live without the rain.
You are thirst and thirst is all I know.
You are sand, wind, sun, and burning sky,
The hottest blue. You blow a breeze and brand
Your breath into my mouth. You reach—then bend
Your force, to break, blow, burn, and make me new.
You wrap your name tight around my ribs
And keep me warm. I was born for you.
Above, below, by you, by you surrounded.
I wake to you at dawn. Never break your
Knot. Reach, rise, blow, Sálvame, mi dios,
Trágame, mi tierra. Salva, traga, Break me,
I am bread. I will be the water for your thirst.


Promise Yourself

To be so strong that nothing
can disturb your peace of mind.
To talk health, happiness, and prosperity
to every person you meet.

To make all your friends feel
that there is something in them
To look at the sunny side of everything
and make your optimism come true.

To think only the best, to work only for the best,
and to expect only the best.
To be just as enthusiastic about the success of others
as you are about your own.

To forget the mistakes of the past
and press on to the greater achievements of the future.
To wear a cheerful countenance at all times
and give every living creature you meet a smile.

To give so much time to the improvement of yourself
that you have no time to criticize others.
To be too large for worry, too noble for anger, too strong for fear,
and too happy to permit the presence of trouble.

To think well of yourself and to proclaim this fact to the world,
not in loud words but great deeds.
To live in faith that the whole world is on your side
so long as you are true to the best that is in you.

A glimpse through an interstice caught,
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremark’d seated in a corner,
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand,
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest,
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word.

I wanted to make myself like the ravine
so that all good things
would flow into me.

Because the ravine is lowly,
it receives an abundance.

This sounds wonderful
to everyone
who suffers from lacking,
but consider, too, that a ravine
keeps nothing out:

in flows a peach
with only one bite taken out of it,
but in flows, too,
the body of a stiff mouse
half cooked by the heat of the stove
it was toughening under.

I have an easygoing way about me.
I’ve been an inviting host —
meaning to, not meaning to.
Oops — he’s approaching with his tongue
already out
and moving.

Analyze the risks
of becoming a ravine.

Compare those with the risks
of becoming a well
with a well-bolted lid.

Which I’d prefer
depends largely on which kinds
of animals were inside me
when the lid went on
and how likely they’d be
to enjoy the water,
vs. drown, freeze, or starve.

The lesson: close yourself off
at exactly the right time.

On the day that you wake up
under some yellow curtains
with a smile on your face,

lock the door.
Live out your days
untroubled like that.

Her body is not so white as
anemone petals nor so smooth—nor
so remote a thing. It is a field
of the wild carrot taking
the field by force; the grass
does not raise above it.
Here is no question of whiteness,
white as can be, with a purple mole
at the center of each flower.
Each flower is a hand’s span
of her whiteness. Wherever
his hand has lain there is
a tiny purple blossom under his touch
to which the fibres of her being
stem one by one, each to its end,
until the whole field is a
white desire, empty, a single stem,
a cluster, flower by flower,
a pious wish to whiteness gone over—
or nothing.
I love you as a sheriff searches for a walnut
That will solve a murder case unsolved for years
Because the murderer left it in the snow beside a window
Through which he saw her head, connecting with
Her shoulders by a neck, and laid a red
Roof in her heart. For this we live a thousand years;
For this we love, and we live because we love, we are not
Inside a bottle, thank goodness! I love you as a
Kid searches for a goat; I am crazier than shirttails
In the wind, when you’re near, a wind that blows from
The big blue sea, so shiny so deep and so unlike us;
I think I am bicycling across an Africa of green and white fields
Always, to be near you, even in my heart
When I’m awake, which swims, and also I believe that you
Are trustworthy as the sidewalk which leads me to
The place where I again think of you, a new
Harmony of thoughts! I love you as the sunlight leads the prow
Of a ship which sails
From Hartford to Miami, and I love you
Best at dawn, when even before I am awake the sun
Receives me in the questions which you always pose.

Sometimes she is like sherry, like the sun through a vessel of glass,
Like light through an oriel window in a room of yellow wood;
Sometimes she is the colour of lions, of sand in the fire of noon,
Sometimes as bruised with shadows as the afternoon.

Sometimes she moves like rivers, sometimes like trees;
Or tranced and fixed like South Pole silences;
Sometimes she is beauty, sometimes fury, sometimes neither,
Sometimes nothing, drained of meaning, null as water.

Sometimes, when she makes me pea-soup or plays me Schumann,
I love her one way; sometimes I love her another
More disturbing way when she opens her mouth in the dark;
Sometimes I like her with camellias, sometimes with a parsley-stalk,
Sometimes I like her swimming in a mirror on the wall;
Sometimes I don’t like her at all.

When we are old and these rejoicing veins
Are frosty channels to a muted stream,
And out of all our burning their remains
No feeblest spark to fire us, even in dream,
This be our solace: that it was not said
When we were young and warm and in our prime,
Upon our couch we lay as lie the dead,
Sleeping away the unreturning time.
O sweet, O heavy-lidded, O my love,
When morning strikes her spear upon the land,
And we must rise and arm us and reprove
The insolent daylight with a steady hand,
Be not discountenanced if the knowing know
We rose from rapture but an hour ago.

She is neither pink nor pale,
And she never will be all mine;
She learned her hands in a fairy-tale,
And her mouth on a valentine.

She has more hair than she needs;
In the sun ’tis a woe to me!
And her voice is a string of coloured beads,
Or steps leading into the sea.

She loves me all that she can,
And her ways to my ways resign;
But she was not made for any man,
And she never will be all mine.

Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;
Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen.Only your word will heal the injury
To my hurt heart, while yet the wound is clean—
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene.Upon my word, I tell you faithfully
Through life and after death you are my queen;
For with my death the whole truth shall be seen.
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;
Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen.

To an army wife, in Sardis:

Some say a cavalry corps,
some infantry, some, again,
will maintain that the swift oars
of our fleet are the finest
sight on dark earth; but I say
that whatever one loves, is.
This is easily proved: did
not Helen—she who had scanned
the flower of the world’s manhood—
choose as first among men one
who laid Troy’s honor in ruin?
warped to his will, forgetting
love due her own blood, her own
child, she wandered far with him.
So Anactoria, although you
being far away forget us,
the dear sound of your footstep
and light glancing in your eyes
would move me more than glitter
of Lydian horse or armored
tread of mainland infantry

Love
Is a ripe plum
Growing on a purple tree.
Taste it once
And the spell of its enchantment
Will never let you be.

Love
Is a bright star
Glowing in far Southern skies.
Look too hard
And its burning flame
Will always hurt your eyes.

Love
Is a high mountain
Stark in a windy sky.
If you
Would never lose your breath
Do not climb too high.


How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.
I love thee to the depth and breadth and height
My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight
For the ends of being and ideal grace.
I love thee to the level of every day’s
Most quiet need, by sun and candle-light.
I love thee freely, as men strive for right;
I love thee purely, as they turn from praise.
I love thee with the passion put to use
In my old griefs, and with my childhood’s faith.
I love thee with a love I seemed to lose
With my lost saints. I love thee with the breath,
Smiles, tears, of all my life; and, if God choose,
I shall but love thee better after death.

Do you remember still the falling stars
that like swift horses through the heavens raced
and suddenly leaped across the hurdles
of our wishes—do you recall? And we
did make so many! For there were countless numbers
of stars: each time we looked above we were
astounded by the swiftness of their daring play,
while in our hearts we felt safe and secure
watching these brilliant bodies disintegrate,
knowing somehow we had survived their fall.

Speak earth and bless me with what is richest
make sky flow honey out of my hips
rigis mountains
spread over a valley
carved out by the mouth of rain.

And I knew when I entered her I was
high wind in her forests hollow
fingers whispering sound
honey flowed
from the split cup
impaled on a lance of tongues
on the tips of her breasts on her navel
and my breath
howling into her entrances
through lungs of pain.

Greedy as herring-gulls
or a child
I swing out over the earth
over and over
again.


The sky was lit
by the splendor of the moon

So powerful
I fell to the ground

Your love
has made me sure

I am ready to forsake
this worldly life
and surrender
to the magnificence
of your Being

Marriage is not
a house, or even a tent

it is before that, and colder:

the edge of the forest, the edge
of the desert
the unpainted stairs
at the back, where we squat
outdoors, eating popcorn

where painfully and with wonder

at having survived
this far

we are learning to make fire

My desire
is always the same; wherever Life
deposits me:
I want to stick my toe
& soon my whole body
into the water.
I want to shake out a fat broom
& sweep dried leaves
bruised blossoms
dead insects
& dust.
I want to grow
something.
It seems impossible that desire
can sometimes transform into devotion;
but this has happened.
And that is how I’ve survived:
how the hole
I carefully tended
in the garden of my heart
grew a heart
to fill it.

I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead;
I lift my lids and all is born again.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

The stars go waltzing out in blue and red,
And arbitrary blackness gallops in:
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.

I dreamed that you bewitched me into bed
And sung me moon-struck, kissed me quite insane.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

God topples from the sky, hell’s fires fade:
Exit seraphim and Satan’s men:
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.

I fancied you’d return the way you said,
But I grow old and I forget your name.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

I should have loved a thunderbird instead;
At least when spring comes they roar back again.
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

love is a place
& through this place of
love move
(with brightness of peace)
all places

yes is a world
& in this world of
yes live
(skillfully curled)
all worlds


When I cannot look at your face
I look at your feet.
Your feet of arched bone,
your hard little feet.
I know that they support you,
and that your sweet weight
rises upon them.
Your waist and your breasts,
the doubled purple
of your nipples,
the sockets of your eyes
that have just flown away,
your wide fruit mouth,
your red tresses,
my little tower.
But I love your feet
only because they walked
upon the earth and upon
the wind and upon the waters,
until they found me.

You and I
Have so much love,
That it
Burns like a fire,
In which we bake a lump of clay
Molded into a figure of you
And a figure of me.
Then we take both of them,
And break them into pieces,
And mix the pieces with water,
And mold again a figure of you,
And a figure of me.
I am in your clay.
You are in my clay.
In life we share a single quilt.
In death we will share one bed.

Love is a fire that burns unseen,
a wound that aches yet isn’t felt,
an always discontent contentment,
a pain that rages without hurting,

a longing for nothing but to long,
a loneliness in the midst of people,
a never feeling pleased when pleased,
a passion that gains when lost in thought.

It’s being enslaved of your own free will;
it’s counting your defeat a victory;
it’s staying loyal to your killer.

But if it’s so self-contradictory,
how can Love, when Love chooses,
bring human hearts into sympathy?

Never give all the heart, for love
Will hardly seem worth thinking of
To passionate women if it seem
Certain, and they never dream
That it fades out from kiss to kiss;
For everything that’s lovely is
But a brief, dreamy, kind delight.
O never give the heart outright,
For they, for all smooth lips can say,
Have given their hearts up to the play.
And who could play it well enough
If deaf and dumb and blind with love?
He that made this knows all the cost,
For he gave all his heart and lost.

Outside the sky is light with stars;
There’s a hollow roaring from the sea.
And, alas! for the little almond flowers,
The wind is shaking the almond tree.

How little I thought, a year ago,
In the horrible cottage upon the Lee
That he and I should be sitting so
And sipping a cup of camomile tea.

Light as feathers the witches fly,
The horn of the moon is plain to see;
By a firefly under a jonquil flower
A goblin toasts a bumble-bee.

We might be fifty, we might be five,
So snug, so compact, so wise are we!
Under the kitchen-table leg
My knee is pressing against his knee.

Our shutters are shut, the fire is low,
The tap is dripping peacefully;
The saucepan shadows on the wall
Are black and round and plain to see.



We swan-dive into the volcano, burning;
We’re creatures of the fire,
Mingled male and female, yearning
For the heat, the sweet explosion of desire.

I splash into the pleasure, all consuming;
I’m joyfully insane,
My passion for you deep, and fully blooming;
Long after, sweet warm flickers still remain.

You make my body sizzle with your kisses,
And yet there’s so much more;
My heart is kindled, too; It knows what bliss is,
This closeness that I’ve never felt before.

My body and my heart belong to you;
I’m peaceful and complete.
I see more adventures coming for we two,
We creatures of the tender fire and heat.

Bonded to you in emotional bliss,
united in physical rapture,
I realize my dreams and fantasies.
Engulfed in contentment
and satisfaction,
I know heaven in your arms.
My intense hunger nourished,
deep yearnings fulfilled,
I am open to you in total trust.
You are my refuge,
my everything

If not for you, I wouldn’t know
What true love really meant.
I’d never feel this inner peace;
I couldn’t be content.

If not for you, I’d never have
The pleasures of romance.
I’d miss the bliss, the craziness,
Of love’s sweet, silly dance.

I have to feel your tender touch;
I have to hear your voice;
No other one could take your place;
You’re it; I have no choice.

If not for you, I’d be adrift;
I don’t know what I’d do;
I’d be searching for my other half,
Incomplete, if not for you.


I’ve held others before,
But it was never like this,
Where my body inhales you
And quivers with bliss,

Where my senses are reeling
From the strength of desire,
And if I can’t have you soon,
I’ll be consumed by the fire.

Before I met you,
I thought I was happy,
and I was,
but I had never known
the rich contentment,
deep satisfaction,
and total fulfillment
you brought to me
when you came into my life.
Before I met you,
I felt a lot of things,
good things,
but I had never experienced
the indescribably intense
feelings I have for you.
Before I met you,
I thought I knew myself,
and I did,
but you looked deep inside me
and found fresh new things
for us to share.
Before I met you,
I thought I knew about love,
but I didn’t,
until I met you.

Let me sing you a love song
About what I feel in my heart;
Butterflies can't find nectar
Whenever we're apart.

You're a flower in bloom.
In the dark, in the gloom,
It's you who brightens my day.
How many ways do I need you?
Every day, every way, come what may.

Our love is the long lasting kind;
We’ve been together quite awhile.
I love you for so many things,
Your voice, your touch, your kiss, your smile.

You accept me as I am;
I can relax and just be me.
Even when my quirks come out,
You think they’re cute; you let me be.

With you, there’s nothing to resist;
You’re irresistible to me.
I’m drawn to you in total trust;
I give myself to you willingly.

Your sweet devotion never fails;
You view me with a patient heart.
You love me, dear, no matter what.
You’ve been that way right from the start.

Those are just a few reasons why
I’ll always love you like I do.
We’ll have a lifetime full of love,
And it will happen because of you.


You're one in a million, my most special one;
Your radiant smile is as bright as the sun;
You're smart and caring and have many great charms,
And my heart really sings when you're wrapped in my arms.

I'm happy you chose me from all of the rest,
And I'm proud 'cause I know that I got the best.
You're so cute and sweet, and you glow like a pearl;
I just love you so much, my most wonderful girl!


When you’re away from me
I long for you...
in my thoughts,
in the center of my soul.
I yearn to see
the affection in your eyes...
blue depths of love for me.
I crave the safe warmth
of your arms around me...
my cave of comfort, ease and peace.
My body aches with hunger for you...
the exquisite torture
of delayed ecstasy,
coming soon, coming soon.
I long for you, I yearn for you,
I ache for you...
Please, bring all that I crave
in your incomparable self.
Come to me. Come to me.

How did this miracle happen
That we're so very blessed,
So close…and more contented,
Than I ever would have guessed.

I never thought that I
Could spend each precious minute
With just one special person
And find happiness within it.

I've learned so much from you
About loving, sharing, giving;
I know if I hadn't met you,
I wouldn't be really living.

We're facing life together;
We're handling joy and sorrow;
I'm glad you're on my side,
Whatever comes tomorrow.

You're my perfect partner,
Sweet lover, trusted friend.
We're safe within our love,
A love that will never end.


I love you for the warm, sweet affection
in your eyes
whenever you look at me,
and the special smile
you save only for me.
I love that you always seek
to have your body close to mine,
reaching out to touch,
to hold my hand,
to wrap your arms around me.
I love how you show me you care
by looking for ways
to make my life easier and more comfortable.
I love that when I ask you to do things,
you try to do them
instead of thinking me demanding.
I love that your favorite place is near me,
that you’d rather be with me
than anywhere else.
I love you for more reasons
than this page has space to write,
so I’ll try to tell you and show you in person
all the things I love about you.

No matter what I look like,
Whether pretty or plain you see,
When I’m all dressed up or in PJs,
You just keep on loving me.

Sometimes I’m happy and cheerful;
Other times grumpy and sad;
Your absolute love never wavers,
Whether I’m grouchy or glad.

Sometimes I try to change you;
And sometimes I criticize;
But I feel something melting within me,
When I see all the love in your eyes.

Your tolerance is endless,
However I choose to be;
Having my love makes you happy,
So you just keep on loving me.

And that is why, my darling,
Whatever else I do,
One thing is sure; no matter what,
I’ll just keep on loving you.

I had many loves before I met you,
interesting loves,
companionable, fun-loving,
comfortable loves,
but only one real love, unique love...
like you.
No one made my heart pound,
my skin damp, everything juicy
through and through...
like you.
None left me breathless,
panting with excitement,
satisfaction, and finally peace,
like you.
Before you, there were others,
but none captured
my mind, heart and soul forever...
like you.

No one loves me like you do;
I’ve never felt like this;
You please me in so many ways,
With a word, a caress, a kiss.

No one understands me like you do;
You see me deep inside,
You choose to overlook my flaws,
The ones I try to hide.

No one satisfies me like you do,
When our bodies intertwine;
You give so much with your tender touch,
You’re amazing, and you’re mine!

No one loves me like you do;
You fill my every need,
And that is why, my darling,
I’ll follow wherever you lead.

I always yearn to come to you,
be with you,
connect with you,
unite with you,
merge with you.
I always love to nurture you,
nourish you,
meet your needs,
feed your hungers.
I will always cherish you,
treasure you,
adore you.
I aways want to be yours,
always.

When I think of you, you fill my mind;
There’s no more thinking room I find.
I’ve never had such thoughts before;
I’m lost in you, whom I adore.

I think no more of mundane things,
Like common pleasures that living brings.
I just think of you, and I’m filled with dreams;
To keep your love fills all my schemes.

How could anyone ever know,
The sweet dreams that I dreamt as a youth,
Could blossom and focus and grow,
Until now they’d turn up as a truth.

A truth filled with blessing and wonder,
A truth filled with love and with caring,
A truth with a voice loud as thunder,
A truth with a message worth sharing.

For you, my love, filled all my dreams,
Of a life I thought never could be.
Now with you at my side, I’m contented;
For my dreaming came true, don’t you see?

I never gave up on my dreaming,
I persisted because I just knew,
A wait for real love is worth waiting,
Now you’re here, and my dreams have come true.

Sometimes a man’s mind and tongue
seem disconnected.
My mind realizes your wonderfulness,
but my tongue might fail to tell you.
Maybe, since my eyes and brain
see how very obvious
your lovely, endearing qualities are,
my tongue thinks
I don’t need to let you know.
In case there is any doubt
about what I am thinking and feeling,
I am writing it down for you:
I always think
you are the prettiest, smartest,
most wonderful, kindest,
most loveable girl
in all the world.
I want to hug, kiss, love
and adore you forever.
Please try to have patience
with the negligence of my tongue.
I am working to keep it in the loop better.


My thoughts of you are like raindrops on flowers...
Beautiful.
My thoughts of you are like a rainbow at a splashing waterfall...
Beautiful.
My thoughts of you are like a full moon
shining through a cloudy night sky...
Beautiful.
No matter what wonders my eyes have seen,
Nothing compares to the beauty I see
when I look at you.
My love for you is beautiful.

We all are explorers on the great sea of life;
We search and we hunt for our pleasure.
Some adventures are fruitful, and some disappoint,
But few find a gem they can treasure.

I’m so blessed I found you as my priceless prize;
You’re a treasure in every way.
I searched with the rest and discovered the best;
Finding you was my luckiest day.

What is it about you that makes me feel weak,
And gives me the goose bumps whenever you speak?
Why does the sight of you fill me with pleasure,
Like a spotlight that shines on a glorious treasure?

Are you so different from others I’ve known?
What qualities do you have that are yours alone?
What can it be that fills up my heart?
And makes me feel lost whenever we part?

There’s no easy answer for this marvelous bliss,
For the wonder I feel whenever we kiss,
For the fire that rages at the touch of your skin,
For the way my heart pounds for you way deep within.

It must be the power of love that I feel,
That ties me in bonds that seem strong as steel.
I could fight to get loose, but I’d rather give in;
To stay trapped by your charms is how I will win.

While others tell me I have faults and flaws,
And pick me all apart and criticize,
You love me, sweetheart, just the way I am;
I only see affection in your eyes.

My pesky quirks you only find endearing;
Your perfect mate is what you choose to see;
I love you for a multitude of reasons;
And most of all 'cause you let me be me.

I never have to change to meet your standards;
Acceptance is the greatest gift you give;
I appreciate you for your sweet devotion,
And I’ll love you for as long as we shall live.

Pirates bold in days of old
Searched the world for treasure rare,
But none they found as bright and sound,
As my girl with the reddish hair.

Precious gold and sparkling jewels
Were fortunes to make men care,
But none were worth a penny
Next to my girl with the reddish hair.

These pirates fought and died for wealth;
Their lives I wouldn’t share,
For I have the only wealth I need:
My girl with the reddish hair.

I was self sufficient,
gratified by my independence,
alone, but not lonely,
I thought.
But I was restless,
searching blindly for something
to fill an empty place
I didn't even know I had,
dimly aware
that I was somehow unfinished.
Then you came,
and filled everything,
every space, every need,
even secret dreams
I had concealed from myself.
I was self sufficient,
and restless;
Now I am profoundly peaceful
and complete,
because of you.

There's a story told of a wizard
Who, for money, would cast a spell,
And I'm sure that you met this wizard,
And you, his wares he did sell.

What else can explain how your smile
Can make my heartbeat roar,
Or how your look slows my breathing,
While causing my spirits to soar.

I'm sure that you and this wizard
Conspired to control my brain,
For I'm always thinking about you--
Feeling happy and slightly insane.

Now I hope I meet that same wizard,
For I'd give him all of my gold,
To make you want to stay with me,
And share happiness as we grow old.

I've had a dream, since I was young
Of just how life should be,
But through the years, try as I might,
That dream eluded me.

I dreamed of a life that was filled with bliss;
I dreamed of love and sharing.
I dreamed, imagined and creatively planned
An adventure for two who were caring.

The road to today was paved with the dreams
That slowly got ground to dust.
And I've trudged that road and carried my load
And tried very hard to adjust.

Each step made me stronger; each test made me wiser,
So on my long walk, I grew,
Till the time was right, one magical night,
For the road to make room for two.

Now my brain shouts your name, and your loving reply
Makes a place for you in my heart.
(Name), it cries--so tender, so wise--
Let's make the adventure start!

Together we're blessed with a perfect match,
Something that's bright and new.
It's not too late, so let's create
A life that makes dreams come true.

My thoughts of you come frequently;
They’re always filled with you and me.
No matter what I see or when,
It brings you back to mind again.

I’d be sitting, reading a book,
Or be out walking by a brook;
No matter what the path I took,
I’d see dream images of how you look.

Each day is filled with dreams of you;
I hope that all these dreams come true.

When love strikes us hard and makes mush of our brain,
When love sneaks in and makes us insane,
All sense can depart and leave the brain blank,
When love like that strikes it can drain our whole tank.

So beware of the power you exert over me,
For I’m under your spell; that’s clear as can be.
Whenever you’re near, my brain slips out of joint;
I fight my love, but what is the point?

You’re my strength and my weakness, for I love you so dearly,
And I hope our love shines through the years just as clearly.

You're the love of my life, my sweet, wonderful wife,
And that's what you'll always be.
I can hardly believe the good fortune I've had
Through the years since you married me.

Each year spent with you is a blessing; it's true!
Each year brings contentment so rare;
Each year binds us stronger and deeper in love,
and my wish is for more years to share!

My partner for life is you, my sweet wife;
I feel the bright joy you provide.
You fill life with pleasure;
You're my very own treasure;
Without you, I'd be empty inside.

Let's cherish the good times, learn from the bad,
Make the most of the life we share
If things get you down, don't worry; don't frown.
Always remember, I care!

I see you at school
And you glance my way,
Passing in the halls
In your ordinary day.

But anytime
Your eyes meet mine
Is a day so rare,
A day so fine.

Just another face,
I’m nothing to you;
You look but don’t see;
You haven’t a clue...

That my heart is racing;
I’m trembling inside;
So much love for you
I’m trying to hide.

You smile at others;
You pass me by;
I’m invisible,
And I want to cry.

You say that you like me,
But that we're just friends;
Can I feel the same?
Well I think it depends:

Can I quit breathing fast
Each time you appear?
Will my heart stop its pounding
Whenever you're near?

I'd like to feel nothing,
And get rid of the thrill.
I wish I'd stop loving you,
But I don't think I will.

I pray the Lord will bless you, Love,
With all that’s good from heaven above.
Lord, please keep him well, secure;
Create in us a love that’s pure,
Unselfish, giving, fond and true,
Fixed on loving and serving You.

When love first comes and all seems right;
It’s beyond our reason that we two can fight.
Yet fights will come, and anger might thrive,
So let’s try to be sure that our love will survive.

Let’s make our plans with similar goals,
So our wants and desires won’t hit hidden shoals
That set us crashing when things get hard,
So our love can stay strong even when it gets jarred.

For if love can stay strong when it’s tested by fire,
Then we'd share a future that most would admire,
A future where partners would strive side by side,
A future where love would always abide.

For many years we’ve lived and loved,
Our lives a rich delight.
Then one day’s events caused us to clash,
And the friction led to a fight.

You think that words can’t do a lot,
But words are not inert.
Words have the power to sooth and calm,
But can also cut and hurt.

If thoughts are kept within your head,
They can be dealt with by you alone.
But once the words are past your lips,
They’re like a monument carved in stone.

So always take the time to think,
Of the hurt that can take place,
Whenever a thought is hastily said,
To cause someone loss of face.

It’s hard work to tear the monument down,
To make the hurtful words lose their power.
It’s so much better not to speak the thought,
And just complain to yourself for an hour.

She walks in beauty, like the night 
Of cloudless climes and starry skies; 
And all that’s best of dark and bright 
Meet in her aspect and her eyes; 
Thus mellowed to that tender light 
Which heaven to gaudy day denies. 

One shade the more, one ray the less, 
Had half impaired the nameless grace 
Which waves in every raven tress, 
Or softly lightens o’er her face; 
Where thoughts serenely sweet express, 
How pure, how dear their dwelling-place. 

And on that cheek, and o’er that brow, 
So soft, so calm, yet eloquent, 
The smiles that win, the tints that glow, 
But tell of days in goodness spent, 
A mind at peace with all below, 
A heart whose love is innocent!

O my Luve is like a red, red rose 
   That’s newly sprung in June; 
O my Luve is like the melody 
   That’s sweetly played in tune. 

So fair art thou, my bonnie lass, 
   So deep in luve am I; 
And I will luve thee still, my dear, 
   Till a’ the seas gang dry. 

Till a’ the seas gang dry, my dear, 
   And the rocks melt wi’ the sun; 
I will love thee still, my dear, 
   While the sands o’ life shall run. 

And fare thee weel, my only luve! 
   And fare thee weel awhile! 
And I will come again, my luve, 
   Though it were ten thousand mile.

Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art— 
         Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night 
And watching, with eternal lids apart, 
         Like nature's patient, sleepless Eremite, 
The moving waters at their priestlike task 
         Of pure ablution round earth's human shores, 
Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask 
         Of snow upon the mountains and the moors— 
No—yet still stedfast, still unchangeable, 
         Pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast, 
To feel for ever its soft fall and swell, 
         Awake for ever in a sweet unrest, 
Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath, 
And so live ever—or else swoon to death.

You are the sun that shines brightly throughout my day.
You are the gravity that holds me down in every way.
You are the moon that shimmers throughout my night.
You are stars that glimmer oh so bright.

You are the oxygen that keeps me alive.
You are my heart that beats inside.
You are the blood that flows through me.
You are the only guy I can see.
You have the voice of when a mockingbird sings.
You are my everything.

You are my one and only.
You stop me from being so lonely.
We plan our future as if we have a clue.
I never want to lose you.
I want you to be my husband, and I want to be your wife.
I want to be with you for the rest of my life.

You are the sun that shines brightly throughout my day.
You are the gravity that holds me down in every way.
You are the moon that shimmers throughout my night.
You are stars that glimmer oh so bright.

You are the oxygen that keeps me alive.
You are my heart that beats inside.
You are the blood that flows through me.
You are the only guy I can see.
You have the voice of when a mockingbird sings.
You are my everything.

You are my one and only.
You stop me from being so lonely.
We plan our future as if we have a clue.
I never want to lose you.
I want you to be my husband, and I want to be your wife.
I want to be with you for the rest of my life.

A glimpse through an interstice caught, 
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremarkd seated in a corner, 
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand, 
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest, 
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word. 


simplicity   
say sleep

or
shall we   
shower

have an apple

you are   
as I need   
water

shall I move?   
do you dream?   
shallow snow

flesh   

melt this

Of many reasons I love you here is one

the way you write me from the gate at the airport
so I can tell you everything will be alright

so you can tell me there is a bird
trapped in the terminal      all the people
ignoring it       because they do not know
what to do with it       except to leave it alone
until it scares itself to death

it makes you terribly terribly sad

You wish you could take the bird outside
and set it free or       (failing that)
call a bird-understander
to come help the bird

All you can do is notice the bird
and feel for the bird       and write
to tell me how language feels
impossibly useless

but you are wrong

You are a bird-understander
better than I could ever be
who make so many noises
and call them song

These are your own words
your way of noticing
and saying plainly
of not turning away
from hurt

you have offered them
to me       I am only
giving them back

if only I could show you
how very useless
they are not


If ever two were one, then surely we.
If ever man were loved by wife, then thee.
If ever wife was happy in a man,
Compare with me, ye women, if you can.
I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold,
Or all the riches that the East doth hold.
My love is such that rivers cannot quench,
Nor ought but love from thee give recompense.
Thy love is such I can no way repay;
The heavens reward thee manifold, I pray.
Then while we live, in love let’s so persever,
That when we live no more, we may live ever.

 Busy old fool, unruly sun,
               Why dost thou thus,
Through windows, and through curtains call on us?
Must to thy motions lovers' seasons run?
               Saucy pedantic wretch, go chide
               Late school boys and sour prentices,
         Go tell court huntsmen that the king will ride,
         Call country ants to harvest offices,
Love, all alike, no season knows nor clime,
Nor hours, days, months, which are the rags of time.

               Thy beams, so reverend and strong
               Why shouldst thou think?
I could eclipse and cloud them with a wink,
But that I would not lose her sight so long;
               If her eyes have not blinded thine,
               Look, and tomorrow late, tell me,
         Whether both th' Indias of spice and mine
         Be where thou leftst them, or lie here with me.
Ask for those kings whom thou saw'st yesterday,
And thou shalt hear, All here in one bed lay.

               She's all states, and all princes, I,
               Nothing else is.
Princes do but play us; compared to this,
All honor's mimic, all wealth alchemy.
               Thou, sun, art half as happy as we,
               In that the world's contracted thus.
         Thine age asks ease, and since thy duties be
         To warm the world, that's done in warming us.
Shine here to us, and thou art everywhere;
This bed thy center is, these walls, thy sphere.

Take all my loves, my love, yea, take them all:
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call—
All mine was thine before thou hadst this more.
Then if for my love thou my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my love thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou this self deceivest
By wilful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb’ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love’s wrong than hate’s known injury.
    Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
    Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.

Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea
But sad mortality o’er-sways their power,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, how shall summer’s honey breath hold out
Against the wrackful siege of batt’ring days,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
Nor gates of steel so strong, but time decays?
O fearful meditation! where, alack,
Shall time’s best jewel from time’s chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
   O, none, unless this miracle have might,
   That in black ink my love may still shine bright.

Drink to me only with thine eyes, 
         And I will pledge with mine; 
Or leave a kiss but in the cup, 
         And I’ll not look for wine. 
The thirst that from the soul doth rise 
         Doth ask a drink divine; 
But might I of Jove’s nectar sup, 
         I would not change for thine. 

I sent thee late a rosy wreath, 
         Not so much honouring thee 
As giving it a hope, that there 
         It could not withered be. 
But thou thereon didst only breathe, 
         And sent’st it back to me; 
Since when it grows, and smells, I swear, 
         Not of itself, but thee.

How do we come to be here next to each other   
in the night
Where are the stars that show us to our love   
inevitable
Outside the leaves flame usual in darkness   
and the rain
falls cool and blessed on the holy flesh   
the black men waiting on the corner for   
a womanly mirage
I am amazed by peace
It is this possibility of you
asleep
and breathing in the quiet air


A glimpse through an interstice caught, 
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremark’d seated in a corner, 
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand, 
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest, 
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word. 


I love your lips when they’re wet with wine 
And red with a wild desire; 
I love your eyes when the lovelight lies 
Lit with a passionate fire. 
I love your arms when the warm white flesh 
Touches mine in a fond embrace; 
I love your hair when the strands enmesh 
Your kisses against my face. 

Not for me the cold, calm kiss 
Of a virgin’s bloodless love; 
Not for me the saint’s white bliss, 
Nor the heart of a spotless dove. 
But give me the love that so freely gives 
And laughs at the whole world’s blame, 
With your body so young and warm in my arms, 
It sets my poor heart aflame. 

So kiss me sweet with your warm wet mouth, 
Still fragrant with ruby wine, 
And say with a fervor born of the South 
That your body and soul are mine. 
Clasp me close in your warm young arms, 
While the pale stars shine above, 
And we’ll live our whole young lives away 
In the joys of a living love. 

I loved you first: but afterwards your love
Outsoaring mine, sang such a loftier song
As drowned the friendly cooings of my dove.
Which owes the other most? my love was long,
And yours one moment seemed to wax more strong;
I loved and guessed at you, you construed me
And loved me for what might or might not be –
Nay, weights and measures do us both a wrong.
For verily love knows not ‘mine’ or ‘thine;’
With separate ‘I’ and ‘thou’ free love has done,
For one is both and both are one in love:
Rich love knows nought of ‘thine that is not mine;’
Both have the strength and both the length thereof,
Both of us, of the love which makes us one.

You are like me, you will die too, but not today:   
you, incommensurate, therefore the hours shine:   
if I say to you “To you I say,” you have not been   
set to music, or broadcast live on the ghost   
radio, may never be an oil painting or
Old Master’s charcoal sketch: you are
a concordance of person, number, voice,
and place, strawberries spread through your name   
as if it were budding shrubs, how you remind me   
of some spring, the waters as cool and clear
(late rain clings to your leaves, shaken by light wind),   
which is where you occur in grassy moonlight:   
and you are a lily, an aster, white trillium
or viburnum, by all rights mine, white star   
in the meadow sky, the snow still arriving
from its earthwards journeys, here where there is   
no snow (I dreamed the snow was you,
when there was snow), you are my right,
have come to be my night (your body takes on   
the dimensions of sleep, the shape of sleep   
becomes you): and you fall from the sky
with several flowers, words spill from your mouth
in waves, your lips taste like the sea, salt-sweet (trees   
and seas have flown away, I call it
loving you): home is nowhere, therefore you,   
a kind of dwell and welcome, song after all,   
and free of any eden we can name

You have changed me already. I am a fireball
That is hurtling towards the sky to where you are
You can choose not to look up but I am a giant orange ball
That is throwing sparks upon your face
Oh look at them shake
Upon you like a great planet that has been murdered by change
O too this is so dramatic this shaking
Of my great planet that is bigger than you thought it would be
So you ran and hid
Under a large tree. She was graceful, I think
That tree although soon she will wither
Into ten black snakes upon your throat
And when she does I will be wandering as I always am
A graceful lady that is part museum
Of the voices of the universe everyone else forgets
I will hold your voice in a little box
And when you come upon me I won’t look back at you
You will feel a hand upon your heart while I place your voice back
Into the heart from where it came from
And I will not cry also
Although you will expect me to
I was wiser too than you had expected
For I knew all along you were mine

The shine on her buckle took precedence in sun
Her shine, I should say, could take me anywhere
It feels right to be up this close in tight wind
It feels right to notice all the shiny things about you
About you there is nothing I wouldn’t want to know
With you nothing is simple yet nothing is simpler
About you many good things come into relation
I think of proofs and grammar, vowel sounds, like
A is for knee socks, E for panties
I is for button down, O the blouse you wear
U is for hair clip, and Y your tight skirt
The music picks up again, I am the man I hope to be
The bright air hangs freely near your newly cut hair
It is so easy now to see gravity at work in your face
Easy to understand time, that dark process
To accept it as a beautiful process, your face

Things happen when you drink too much mescal.
One night, with not enough food in my belly,
he kept on buying.   I’m a girl who’ll fall
damn near in love with gratitude and, well, he
was hot and generous and so the least
that I could do was let him kiss me, hard
and soft and any way you want it, beast
and beauty, lime and salt—sweet Bacchus’ pards—
and when his friend showed up I felt so warm
and generous I let him kiss me too.
His buddy asked me if it was the worm
inside that makes me do the things I do.
I wasn’t sure which worm he meant, the one
I ate?   The one that eats at me alone?

My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,
and likes to rent her movies, for a treat.
It makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

The list of actresses who might employ
him as their slave is too long to repeat.
(My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,

Carole Lombard, Paulette Goddard, coy
Jean Arthur with that voice as dry as wheat ...)
It makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

Does he confess all this just to annoy
a loyal spouse? I know I can’t compete.
My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy.

And can’t a woman have her dreamboats? Boy,
I wouldn’t say my life is incomplete,
but some evening I could certainly enjoy

two hours with Cary Grant as my own toy.
I guess, though, we were destined not to meet.
My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,
which makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

In an effort to get people to look
into each other’s eyes more,
and also to appease the mutes,
the government has decided
to allot each person exactly one hundred   
and sixty-seven words, per day.

When the phone rings, I put it to my ear   
without saying hello. In the restaurant   
I point at chicken noodle soup.
I am adjusting well to the new way.

Late at night, I call my long distance lover,   
proudly say I only used fifty-nine today.   
I saved the rest for you.

When she doesn’t respond,
I know she’s used up all her words,   
so I slowly whisper I love you
thirty-two and a third times.
After that, we just sit on the line   
and listen to each other breathe.

She goes out to hang the windchime
in her nightie and her work boots.
It’s six-thirty in the morning
and she’s standing on the plastic ice chest
tiptoe to reach the crossbeam of the porch,

windchime in her left hand,
hammer in her right, the nail
gripped tight between her teeth
but nothing happens next because
she’s trying to figure out
how to switch #1 with #3.

She must have been standing in the kitchen,
coffee in her hand, asleep,
when she heard it—the wind blowing
through the sound the windchime
wasn’t making
because it wasn’t there.

No one, including me, especially anymore believes
till death do us part,
but I can see what I would miss in leaving—
the way her ankles go into the work boots
as she stands upon the ice chest;
the problem scrunched into her forehead;
the little kissable mouth
with the nail in it.

Guy calls the doctor, says the wife’s   
contractions are five minutes apart.   
Doctor says, Is this her first child?
guy says, No, it’s her husband.

I promise to try to remember who   
I am. Wife gets up on one elbow,

says, I wanted to get married.   
It seemed a fulfillment of some

several things, a thing to be done.   
Even the diamond ring was some

thing like a quest, a thing they   
set you out to get and how insane

the quest is; how you have to turn   
it every way before you can even

think to seek it; this metaphysical   
refraining is in fact the quest. Who’d

have guessed? She sighs, I like   
the predictability of two, I like

my pleasures fully expected,   
when the expectation of them

grows patterned in its steady   
surprise. I’ve got my sweet

and tumble pat. Here on earth,   
I like to count upon a thing

like that. Thus explained   
the woman in contractions

to her lover holding on
the telephone for the doctor

to recover from this strange   
conversational turn. You say

you’re whom? It is a pleasure   
to meet you. She rolls her

eyes, but he’d once asked her   
Am I your first lover? and she’d   
said, Could be. Your face looks   
familiar. It’s the same type of

generative error. The grammar
of the spoken word will flip, let alone

the written, until something new is   
in us, and in our conversation.

For the first time, I listen to a lost
and secret recording of us
making love near-on ten years ago.

I recognize your voice, your sounds,
though if I knew no better,
I could be any man in any room.

After, the rising sounds of rising
and of dressing and once
as you step up close to the deck,

perhaps to pick up shoes, you sing
the chorus of Sunday Morning.
I call on you to hurry and we leave.

It does not end then; the tape rolls on.
A few late cars which sigh by
might have passed us walking away

triumphant, unaware we’ve left behind
this mop and mow mechanism
of silence to which we may never return.

He danced with tall grass
for a moment, like he was swaying
with a woman. Our gun barrels
glowed white-hot.
When I got to him,
a blue halo
of flies had already claimed him.
I pulled the crumbled photograph
from his fingers.
There's no other way
to say this: I fell in love.
The morning cleared again,
except for a distant mortar
& somewhere choppers taking off.
I slid the wallet into his pocket
& turned him over, so he wouldn't be
kissing the ground.

I didn’t fall in love. I fell through it:

Came out the other side moments later, hands full of matter, waking up from the dream of a bullet tearing through the middle of my body.

I no longer understand anything for longer than a long moment, or the time it takes to receive the shot.

This kind of gravity is like falling through a cloud, forgetting it all, and then being told about it later. On the day you fell through a cloud . . .

It must be true. If it were not, then when did these strands of silver netting attach to my hair?

The problem was finding that you were real and not just a dream of clouds.

If you weren’t real, I would address this letter to one of two entities: myself, or everyone else. The effect would be equivalent.

The act of falling happens in time. That is, it takes long enough for the falling to shear away from the moments before and the moments after, long enough for one to have thought I am falling. I have been falling. I continue to fall.

Falling through a ring, in this case, would not mean falling through the center of the annulus—a planet floats there. Falling through the ring means falling through the spaces between the objects that together make the ring.

On the way through, clasp your fists around the universe:

Nothing but ice-gravel.

But open your hands when you reach the other side. Quickly, before it melts.   

What did I leave you?

Methought I saw my late espoused saint
       Brought to me, like Alcestis, from the grave,
       Whom Jove's great son to her glad husband gave,
       Rescu'd from death by force, though pale and faint.
Mine, as whom wash'd from spot of child-bed taint
       Purification in the old Law did save,
       And such as yet once more I trust to have
       Full sight of her in Heaven without restraint,
Came vested all in white, pure as her mind;
       Her face was veil'd, yet to my fancied sight
       Love, sweetness, goodness, in her person shin'd
So clear as in no face with more delight.
       But Oh! as to embrace me she inclin'd,
       I wak'd, she fled, and day brought back my night.

Though beauty be the mark of praise, 
   And yours of whom I sing be such 
   As not the world can praise too much, 
Yet ’tis your virtue now I raise. 

A virtue, like allay, so gone 
   Throughout your form, as, though that move 
   And draw and conquer all men’s love, 
This sùbjects you to love of one. 

Wherein you triumph yet; because 
   ’Tis of yourself, and that you use 
   The noblest freedom, not to choose 
Against or faith or honor’s laws. 

But who should less expect from you, 
   In whom alone Love lives again? 
   By whom he is restored to men, 
And kept, and bred, and brought up true. 

His falling temples you have reared, 
   The withered garlands ta’en away; 
   His altars kept from the decay 
That envy wished, and nature feared; 

And on them burn so chaste a flame, 
   With so much loyalties’ expense, 
   As Love, t’ acquit such excellence, 
Is gone himself into your name. 

And you are he; the deity 
   To whom all lovers are designed 
   That would their better objects find; 
Among which faithful troop am I. 

Who, as an offspring at your shrine, 
   Have sung this hymn, and here entreat 
   One spark of your diviner heat 
To light upon a love of mine. 

Which, if it kindle not, but scant 
   Appear, and that to shortest view, 
   Yet give me leave t’ adore in you 
What I in her am grieved to want.

There is a hornet in the room   
and one of us will have to go   
out the window into the late   
August midafternoon sun. I
won. There is a certain challenge   
in being humane to hornets   
but not much. A launch draws   
two lines of wake behind it   
on the bay like a delta
with a melted base. Sandy   
billows, or so they look,
of feathery ripe heads of grass,   
an acid-yellow kind of
goldenrod glowing or glowering   
in shade. Rocks with rags   
of shadow, washed dust clouts   
that will never bleach.
It is not like this at all.   
The rapid running of the   
lapping water a hollow knock
of someone shipping oars:   
it’s eleven years since   
Frank sat at this desk and   
saw and heard it all   
the incessant water the   
immutable crickets only   
not the same: new needles   
on the spruce, new seaweed   
on the low-tide rocks   
other grass and other water   
even the great gold lichen   
on a granite boulder   
even the boulder quite   
literally is not the same


A day subtle and suppressed   
in mounds of juniper enfolding   
scratchy pockets of shadow
while bigness—rocks, trees, a stump—
stands shadowless in an overcast   
of ripe grass. There is nothing   
but shade, like the boggy depths   
of a stand of spruce, its resonance   
just the thin scream
of mosquitoes ascending.
Boats are light lumps on the bay   
stretching past erased islands   
to ocean and the terrible tumble   
and London (“rain persisting”)   
and Paris (“changing to rain”).   
Delicate day, setting the bright
of a young spruce against the cold
of an old one hung with unripe cones   
each exuding at its tip
gum, pungent, clear as a tear,   
a day tarnished and fractured   
as the quartz in the rocks
of a dulled and distant point,   
a day like a gull passing
with a slow flapping of wings   
in a kind of lope, without
breeze enough to shake loose   
the last of the fireweed flowers,
a faintly clammy day, like wet silk   
stained by one dead branch   
the harsh russet of dried blood.

It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.


It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.

It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.

Cherry plums suck a week’s soak,
overnight they explode into the scenery of before
your touch. The curtains open on the end of our past.
Pink trumpets on the vines bare to the hummingbirds.
Butterflies unclasp from the purse of their couplings, they
light and open on the doubled hands of eucalyptus fronds.
They sip from the pistils for seven generations that bear
them through another tongue as the first year of our
punishing mathematic begins clicking the calendar
forward. They land like seasoned rocks on the
decks of the cliffs. They take another turn
on the spiral of life where the blossoms
blush & pale in a day of dirty dawn
where the ghost of you webs
your limbs through branches
of cherry plum. Rare bird,
extinct color, you stay in
my dreams in x-ray. In
rerun, the bone of you
stripping sweethearts
folds and layers the
shedding petals of
my grief into a
decayed holo-
gram—my
for ever
empty
art.

The day is gone, and all its sweets are gone! 
Sweet voice, sweet lips, soft hand, and softer breast, 
Warm breath, light whisper, tender semi-tone, 
Bright eyes, accomplish’d shape, and lang’rous waist! 
Faded the flower and all its budded charms, 
Faded the sight of beauty from my eyes, 
Faded the shape of beauty from my arms, 
Faded the voice, warmth, whiteness, paradise – 
Vanish’d unseasonably at shut of eve, 
When the dusk holiday – or holinight 
Of fragrant-curtain’d love begins to weave 
The woof of darkness thick, for hid delight, 
But, as I’ve read love’s missal through to-day, 
He’ll let me sleep, seeing I fast and pray. 


Just being around you gives me a happiness that no one else could ever give me. You have given me a love that I had never known before .I love being with you and cannot imagine a world without you in it. Each morning, I wake up and thank God that you have been a part of my life. I just cannot find the words to tell you how happy I am that we met and got together. You have been the rock I turned to during difficulties and the guiding light that lit the way whenever I was lost. I want to tell you that my love is undying and eternal, but I can’t find a way to express it properly. I know that my love is enduring enough to last a lifetime, and I feel blessed that you are a part of my life. I wake up each day and bounce out of bed because I know that I will get to see or talk to you during the day.  I promise that I will always love you and keep you dear in my heart. I will be there for you whenever you need me and will love you no matter where life ends up taking us. You are my soul mate, and I cannot exist without you by me. I love you.

I Love being with you. There is no one else I'd rather be with you. You make me smile in a way no one else can. You're the first thing I wanna see in the morning, and the last thing I wanna see at night. I've never loved anyone the way I love you. You're my other half. My love ,my best boyfriend. My happy ever after. You're everything I have ever hoped and wished for. I love you and only you.

It feels like we just met yesterday, but at the same time I feel I have known you all my life. I love us. We’re the cutest .we make the perfect couple. We understand each other. We listen to each other. We inspire each other Everything else feel meaningless because the only thing that matters is You. I would be lost without you. Thank you for everything you have done for me

As I am writing this letter, I have thousands of thoughts running through my mind.
Through this letter I wanted to express my love for you that is honestly hard to put into words.
Do you know how much you mean to me?
There isn't a day that goes by when my mind isn't thinking of you.
You are the reason behind every piece of joy in my life.You are the one that has lifted me up to show me the beauty of life.There is no other person in this world that could have done that for me.
I want to give all of the happiness the world could possibly give.
You are my dream come true- you are the love of my life.

I know you are the only one for me. When I'am away from you, you are the one who is continuously on my mind.
From the moment when I first saw you, I know our friendship was going to blossom into something beautiful.
You are the true love in my life.
You are the only one who can make me feel the way you do.I look forward to the life we will be living together.
It is you that I want to sit next to as we are ageing and it is you I want to rest next to.

I hate being apart from you, but our long distance love gives me something to look forward to each and every day. I keep counting down the moments until I get to feel your arms wrapped around me again, until I get to fall asleep to the sound of your soft breathing. I love you and I miss you — Not seeing you has been slowly driving me insane. I cannot wait until the day when we live together.

Even after all of this time, I still get butterflies when you smile at me. I still feel light as air when you press your lips against me. Just thinking about you on top of me, trailing kisses across my chest and stomach and thighs, is making me want you. Badly. I hope we can fix that tonight. What do you say?

We have been seeing each other for a long time now but I was never able to express my love to you. This time, I am writing this letter to firmly express my heart out in front of you. I want to say that you are the driving force of my life who keeps me sane when I am agitated at times. You are the magician who knows the ways of calming me down and keeps her cool throughout. Your charms are beguiling and it is because of them that I have started loving you a thousand folds more. I have started adoring you more and more each day. I want our relationship to flourish this way forever and ever. And I am going to keep loving you more each and everyday.

There's no one who can take your place.
The way you smile, the way you look, the way you always know what I am thinking about,
the way you gave me hug when all was needed, the way you cry, laugh, listen and love.
You share your hopes and dreams and help me shared mine; you touch my life and there will never be another you.
You have touched me more profoundly than I ever thought you could touch me.
I love you.

You are the one who has given meaning to my life and I am very glad that our relationship has gone through a paradise visit from when it started. The stars are waiting to come out at night to remind us about the sparkling moments of our life.
May our love be a remarkable one which reach the moon and stars and bring a new meaning to life.

We both know we have a very special relationship -Without ever needing to say so — how in love we are.

But now I want to say you are very precious to me. I love to be close to you. You are more beautiful than sunshine, more precious than gold. You are sweeter than candy and more lovely than the moon. You are exquisite and delightful, special and unique. And what’s most astounding of all, you want to be with me.

I remember the first time I met you. It was one of the best moments of my life. I couldn't understand why you were so special to me. But the time we spent together was so enchanting that each moment without you feel like a punishment to me. I only know how difficult it was for me to restrain myself from rushing to you and to concentrate on my work. Sometimes when I couldn't bear your absence, I would call you up. And somewhere along the way, I myself opened up without even realizing it. We slowly developed a deep love, and eventually we both knew it. It was so beautiful a feeling

I am madly in love with you, my darling. 

The moment that I first met you,
I knew with absolute certainty and clarity that we were meant to be.
I wasn't being presumptuous when I thought so, 
for there was this voice within my soul that just validated this thought. 
This voice found validation the day you asked me out and I,
with absolute confidence in that voice, said yes to you.
Since that very day till today, 
I haven't regretted a moment in your company and that is how I know that I am lucky to have found you.
You are my every dream come true. 

I wanted to write you a love letter, and a thank you note Maybe it’s both. I want to thank you for all of the hugs you have offered me to squeeze the sadness out and all of the pep talks you have given me when I doubted myself. Most of all, thank you for being my partner. Thank you for being my best friend in the world.

You entered my heart Slowly, quietly and passionately
Your love spread through me.
Now Why are you so perfect,

God only knows..,

In every direction, there is you – just you.
My emotions are rising and I am facing short of breath;
My heart is beating fast
What madness, what obsession…
What can I say of my state now?
My heart, my soul, my whole world,
you are my only desire.

My sweetheart only You!!

I adore you. I long to hold you close to me. I feel such warmth and comfort when I am in your arms. I am relaxed and content when we sit on the couch and talk. My heart is at peace when lay on the floor and cuddle. My heart quivers when you touch my face and my passion flows when you touch my lips. I get immense pleasure from gently touching your face and feel tremendous yearning and passion when I touch your lips. I long to be near you. I want nothing more than to be close to you.

Since the time I met you, I must that you that I have never felt so divine in my entire life. I never thought I was capable of experiencing such type of emotions but I realized that just a look of you makes me feel bliss. You bring with you the warmth of spring, the joy of rain and the calmness of summers. My world has turned upside down since the time you have stepped into my life. You make me feel truly alive. All I want from you is the care and love I am longing for. Promise me that you will be by my side forever.

Hey, as you know things aren't working well with us, here I am writing this letter to you to let you know what I feel. Baby, I love you immensely. All I think about is you and the moments which make you mine. Babe, I am sorry if I was being too stubborn yesterday. Just remember that I am so much in love with you and I can't wait to see you in the evening. I am living the best time of my life with you and I don't want to have a fight. All I want is to love you and be with you. I love this life which we share.

I am so sorry I initiated a fight with you. Today, the whole day I was constantly thinking of you, you were on my mind every now and then. It is so crazy about me that today every little thing reminded me of you. I was imagining you by my side and your smile, your voice, your laugh giggled in my ears. I was thinking of you and felt the touch of your hands over mine. I am so sorry I fought with you. Your presence in my life completes me and makes me feel alive. Since the time you left the house, I feel deserted and unloved. Your name is at the edge of my lips since morning. Please forgive me and love me more. I feel so miserable without you. My fondness for you has no bounds. Come and hug me after reading this s I want you in my arms right now. 

It is important you read this letter, because the reason to write it will convince you of many things.

It was two years ago that you first told me you loved me and asked me to be your girlfriend. Remembering our first kiss is remembering since when my heart beats for you. Knowing you are with me makes my life a dream come true. I'm the luckiest woman in the world as I'm in love with my best friend.

My love for you have grown deeper. Whenever something good happens, you're the first person I want to share with.. When I am sad, I know that I can count on you to take me in your arms and tell me everything will be alright.

I just wanted let you know that I love you more than even the most heartfelt words can express.

You were already on my mind when I woke up this morning. I just can't stop thinking about you. You are the most important person in my life. So, I just wanted to say I love you, and I can't wait to see you again.

Just being with you has made all my dreams come true, and I want to do everything I can to make you feel that way too. You deserve to be treasured for being the sweetest, kindest, most thoughtful boyfriend any girl could ask for, and believe me, I do treasure youYours only,

Just a moment ago I thought about you and my heart was filled with gratitude. So before another moment goes by I want to say thank you.
Thank you for the late night laughs and the early morning kisses.
Thank you for holding my hand throughout this life and proving that good men do still exist. 
Thank you for your love and friendship. And most of all, thank you for the pleasure of being your wife.

If only I were a clever woman, I could describe to you my gorgeous bird, how you unite in yourself the beauties of form, plumage, and song!
I would tell you that you are the greatest marvel of all ages, and I should only be speaking the simple truth. But to put all this into suitable words, my superb one, I should require a voice far more harmonious than that which is bestowed upon my species –
I will not tell you to what degree you are dazzling and to the birds of sweet song who, as you know, are none the less beautiful and appreciative.
I love you, I love you. My Victor; I can not reiterate it too often; I can never express it as much as I feel it.
I recognize you in all the beauty that surrounds me in form, in colour, in perfume, in harmonious sound: all of these mean you to me. You are superior to all. I see and admire - you are all!
You are not only the solar spectrum with the seven luminous colours, but the sun himself, that illumines, warms, and revivifies! This is what you are, and I am the lowly woman that adores you.

No, nothing has the power to part me from you; our love is based upon virtue, and will last as long as our lives.
Adieu, there is nothing that I will not brave for your sake; you deserve much more than that.

I belong to you; there is really no other way of expressing it, and that is not strong enough.
How could I, fool that I am, go on sitting in my office, or here at home, instead of leaping onto a train with my eyes shut and opening them only when I am with you?

I already love in you your beauty, but I am only beginning to love in you that which is eternal and ever precious - your heart, your soul.
Beauty one could get to know and fall in love with in one hour and cease to love it as speedily; but the soul one must learn to know. 

I Love you because I love you,
Because it would be impossible
for me nit to love you.
I love you without question,
without calculation, without reason good or bad,
faithfully, with all my heart and soul, and every faculty.
Believe it, for it is true.
If you cannot believe, I being at your side,
I will make a drastic effort to force you to do so.

I love you.
You are truly the one for me.
The day would not be complete without you.
You are my smile, my tears,
my laughter, my heart, my soul,
my love, my life.
You are my everything.
I never want to be without you.
I want to grow old with you.

The day when I started loving you is the day that I lost myself.
Your love has so much power that I can be what you meant to be.
Your love has given me the start to foresee.
The love that you have given me is truly selfless.
When you don't see me baby I feel so restless.
Not a single moment I would like to stay without you as you
know that you do for me and ways which I so want to see.
My baby you are and will remain in my destiny.
I love you so much.

You are my only love.
You have me completely in your power.
I know and feel that if I am to write anything fine and noble in the future I shall do so only by listening at the doors of your heart.
I would like to go through life side by side with you, telling you more and more until we grew to be one being together until the hour should come for us to die.

You fear, sometimes, I do not love you so much as you wish?
My dear Girl I love you ever and ever and without reserve.
The more I have known you the more have I lov'd. In every way - even my jealousies have been agonies of Love, in the hottest fit I ever had I would have died for you.
You are always new. The last of your kisses was ever the sweetest; the last smile the brightest; the last movement the gracefullest.
When you pass'd my window home yesterday, I was fill'd with as much admiration as if I had then seen you for the first time. Even if you did not love me I could not help an entire devotion to you: how much more deeply then must I feel for you knowing you love me.
My Mind has been the most discontented and restless one that ever was put into a body too small for it.
I never felt my Mind repose upon anything with complete and undistracted enjoyment - upon no person but you.
When you are in the room my thoughts never fly out of window: you always concentrate my whole senses.

In that word, beautiful in all languages, but most so in yours--Amor mio--is comprised my existence here and hereafter.
I feel I exist here, and I feel I shall exist hereafter,--to what purpose you will decide; my destiny rests with you,
But I more than love you, and cannot cease to love you.
Think of me, sometimes, when the Alps and ocean divide us,--but they never will, unless you wish it.


I have a thousand images of you in an hour; all different and all coming back to the same... And we love. And we've got the most amazing secrets and understandings. Noel, whom I love, who is so beautiful and wonderful. I think of you eating omlette on the ground. I think of you once against a sky line: and on the hill that Sunday morning.
And that night was the most wonderful of all. The light and the shadow and quietness and the rain and the wood. And you. You are so beautiful and wonderful that I daren't write to you... And kinder than God. Your arms and lips and hair and shoulders and voice - you.

Dearest, - I wish I had the gift of making rhymes, for methinks there is poetry in my head and heart since I have been in love with you.
You are a Poem.
Of what sort, then? Epic?
Mercy on me, no! A sonnet?
No; for that is too labored and artificial.
You are a sort of sweet, simple, gay, pathetic ballad, which Nature is singing, sometimes with tears, sometimes with smiles, and sometimes with intermingled smiles and tears.


I wake filled with thoughts of you. Your portrait and the intoxicating evening which we spent yesterday have left my senses in turmoil. Sweet, incomparable Josephine, what a strange effect you have on my heart! Are you angry? Do I see you looking sad? Are you worried?... My soul aches with sorrow, and there can be no rest for you lover; but is there still more in store for me when, yielding to the profound feelings which overwhelm me, I draw from your lips, from your heart a love which consumes me with fire? Ah! it was last night that I fully realized how false an image of you your portrait gives!
You are leaving at noon; I shall see you in three hours.

The world may never put a face with this mysterious woman or know the circumstances of their affair and his letters are all that is left of a love as intensely passionate as the music for which Beethoven became famous. Compositions such as the Moonlight Sonata as well as Beethoven's many symphonies express eloquently the tragedy of a relationship never publicly realized.

My angel, my all, my very self -- only a few words today and at that with your pencil -- not till tomorrow will my lodgings be definitely determined upon -- what a useless waste of time. Why this deep sorrow where necessity speaks -- can our love endure except through sacrifices -- except through not demanding everything -- can you change it that you are not wholly mine, I not wholly thine?

Oh, God! look out into the beauties of nature and comfort yourself with that which must be -- love demands everything and that very justly -- that it is with me so far as you are concerned, and you with me. If we were wholly united you would feel the pain of it as little as I!

Now a quick change to things internal from things external. We shall surely see each other; moreover, I cannot communicate to you the observations I have made during the last few days touching my own life -- if our hearts were always close together I would make none of the kind. My heart is full of many things to say to you - Ah! -- there are moments when I feel that speech is nothing after all -- cheer up -- remain my true, only treasure, my all as I am yours; the gods must send us the rest that which shall be best for us.

I have been asking myself every moment if such happiness is not a dream.
It seems to me that what I feel is not of earth. I cannot yet comprehend this cloudless heaven. My whole soul is yours.
My Adele, why is there no word for this but joy? Is it because there is no power in human speech to express such happiness?sometimes I tremble lest I should suddenly awaken from this dream divine.
Oh, now you are mine! At last you are mine! Soon -- in a few months, perhaps, my angel will sleep in my arms, will awaken in my arms, will live there.
All your thoughts at all moments, all your looks will be for me; all my thoughts, all my moments, all my looks, will be for you!
Adieu, my angel, my beloved Adele! Adieu!
Still I am far from you, but I can dream of you.
Soon perhaps you will be at my side.
Adieu; pardon the delirium of your husband who embraces you, and who adores you, both for this life and another.

You have touched me more profoundly than I thought even you could have touched me - my heart was full when you came here today. Henceforward I am yours for everything. 

The passion of love has need to be productive of much delight; as where it takes thorough possession of the man, it almost unfits him for anything else.
The lover who is certain of an equal return of affection, is surely the happiest of men; but he who is a prey to the horrors of anxiety and dreaded disappointment, is a being whose situation is by no means enviable.
Of this, my present experience gives me much proof.
To me, amusement seems impertinent, and business intrusion, while you alone engross every faculty of my mind.
May I request you to drop me a line, to inform me when I may wait upon you?
For pity's sake, do; and let me have it soon.
In the meantime allow me, in all the artless sincerity of truth, to assure you that I truly am,
my dearest Madam,
your ardent lover, and devoted humble servant

f all that I have said and done, and am still but too ready to say and do, have not sufficiently proved what my real feelings are and must be ever towards you, my love, I have no other proof to offer.
My Dearest & Most Beloved Friend
Bless you -- ever & even more than ever.
Your most attached

Is there anything on earth or heaven would have made me so happy as to have made you mine long ago? and not less now than then, but more than ever at this time -- you know I would with pleasure give up all here and all beyond the grave for you
I was and am yours, freely and most entirely, to obey, to honour, love --and fly with you when, where, and how you yourself might and may determine.

I will cover you with love when next I see you, with caresses, with ecstasy.
When you are old, I want you to recall those few hours, I want your dry bones to quiver with joy when you think of them.

I love you no longer; on the contrary, I detest you. you are a wretch, truly perverse, truly stupid, a real Cinderella. You never write to me at all, you do not love your husband; you know the pleasure that your letters give him yet you cannot even manage to write him half a dozen lines, dashed off in a moment! What then do you do all day, Madame? What business is so vital that it robs you of the time to write to your faithful lover? What attachment can be stifling and pushing aside the love, the tender and constant love which you promised him? Who can this wonderful new lover be who takes up your every moment, rules your days and prevents you from devoting your attention to your husband? 
Beware, Josephine; one fine night the doors will be broken down and there I shall be. In truth, I am worried, my love, to have no news from you; write me a four page letter instantly made up from those delightful words which fill my heart with emotion and joy. I hope to hold you in my arms before long, when I shall lavish upon you a million kisses, burning as the equatorial sun.

Dearest if you are as fond of me as I am of you...nothing human could keep us long apart.
This last week has seemed an eternity tome; Oh, I would give my soul for another of those days we had together not long ago...
My first and only love...Believe me ever to be
Yrs devotedly and lovingly,

My dearest, 
When two souls, which have sought each other for, however long in the throng, have finally found each other ...a union, fiery and pure as they themselves are... begins on earth and continues forever in heaven. 
This union is love, true love, ... a religion, which deifies the loved one, whose life comes from devotion and passion, and for which the greatest sacrifices are the sweetest delights. This is the love which you inspire in me... Your soul is made to love with the purity and passion of angels; but perhaps it can only love another angel, in which case I must tremble with apprehension.

I am looking forward to holding you once again in my loving arms. You are beautiful. You are wonderful. You are special. You are mine!!!

t's you and me, my sweetheart, just You and Me ...
I want you to know that no words can describe how deeply you touch my heart.
I tried so hard to put my thoughts on a paper, 
but words escape every time I try. I only know that I Love you truly ... 
I Love you deeply, more and more each day. 
I don't know what I would do without you. You and Me, only you and me...

Only once in your life, I truly believe, you find someone who can completely turn your world around. You tell them things that you’ve never shared with another soul and they absorb everything you say and actually want to hear more. You share hopes for the future, dreams that will never come true, goals that were never achieved and the many disappointments life has thrown at you. When something wonderful happens, you can’t wait to tell them about it, knowing they will share in your excitement. They are not embarrassed to cry with you when you are hurting or laugh with you when you make a fool of yourself. Never do they hurt your feelings or make you feel like you are not good enough, but rather they build you up and show you the things about yourself that make you special and even beautiful. There is never any pressure, jealousy or competition but only a quiet calmness when they are around. You can be yourself and not worry about what they will think of you because they love you for who you are. The things that seem insignificant to most people such as a note, song or walk become invaluable treasures kept safe in your heart to cherish forever. Memories of your childhood come back and are so clear and vivid it’s like being young again. Colours seem brighter and more brilliant. Laughter seems part of daily life where before it was infrequent or didn’t exist at all. A phone call or two during the day helps to get you through a long day’s work and always brings a smile to your face. In their presence, there’s no need for continuous conversation, but you find you’re quite content in just having them nearby. Things that never interested you before become fascinating because you know they are important to this person who is so special to you. You think of this person on every occasion and in everything you do. Simple things bring them to mind like a pale blue sky, gentle wind or even a storm cloud on the horizon. You open your heart knowing that there’s a chance it may be broken one day and in opening your heart, you experience a love and joy that you never dreamed possible. You find that being vulnerable is the only way to allow your heart to feel true pleasure that’s so real it scares you. You find strength in knowing you have a true friend and possibly a soul mate who will remain loyal to the end. Life seems completely different, exciting and worthwhile. Your only hope and security is in knowing that they are a part of your life.

I'm selfish, impatient and a little insecure. I make mistakes, I am out of control and at times hard to handle. But if you can't handle me at my worst, then you sure as hell don't deserve me at my best.

You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listening,
And live like it's heaven on earth.

You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.

You may not be her first, her last, or her only. She loved before she may love again. But if she loves you now, what else matters? She's not perfect—you aren't either, and the two of you may never be perfect together but if she can make you laugh, cause you to think twice, and admit to being human and making mistakes, hold onto her and give her the most you can. She may not be thinking about you every second of the day, but she will give you a part of her that she knows you can break—her heart. So don't hurt her, don't change her, don't analyze and don't expect more than she can give. Smile when she makes you happy, let her know when she makes you mad, and miss her when she's not there.

People think a soul mate is your perfect fit, and that's what everyone wants. But a true soul mate is a mirror, the person who shows you everything that is holding you back, the person who brings you to your own attention so you can change your life. 

A true soul mate is probably the most important person you'll ever meet, because they tear down your walls and smack you awake. But to live with a soul mate forever? Nah. Too painful. Soul mates, they come into your life just to reveal another layer of yourself to you, and then leave. 

A soul mates purpose is to shake you up, tear apart your ego a little bit, show you your obstacles and addictions, break your heart open so new light can get in, make you so desperate and out of control that you have to transform your life, then introduce you to your spiritual master...

To love at all is to be vulnerable. Love anything and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact you must give it to no one, not even an animal. Wrap it carefully round with hobbies and little luxuries; avoid all entanglements. Lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket, safe, dark, motionless, airless, it will change. It will not be broken; it will become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeemable. To love is to be vulnerable.”

I've been making a list of the things they don't teach you at school. They don't teach you how to love somebody. They don't teach you how to be famous. They don't teach you how to be rich or how to be poor. They don't teach you how to walk away from someone you don't love any longer. They don't teach you how to know what's going on in someone else's mind. They don't teach you what to say to someone who's dying. They don't teach you anything worth knowing.

He’s not perfect. You aren’t either, and the two of you will never be perfect. But if he can make you laugh at least once, causes you to think twice, and if he admits to being human and making mistakes, hold onto him and give him the most you can. He isn’t going to quote poetry, he’s not thinking about you every moment, but he will give you a part of him that he knows you could break. Don’t hurt him, don’t change him, and don’t expect for more than he can give. Don’t analyze. Smile when he makes you happy, yell when he makes you mad, and miss him when he’s not there. Love hard when there is love to be had. Because perfect guys don’t exist, but there’s always one guy that is perfect for you.

I carry your heart with me (I carry it in my heart)I am never without it (anywhere
I go you go, my dear; and whatever is done by only me is your doing, my darling)
I fear no fate (for you are my fate, my sweet)I want no world (for beautiful you are my world, my true)
and it's you are whatever a moon has always meant and whatever a sun will always sing is you

here is the deepest secret nobody knows
(here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud and the sky of the sky of a tree called life; which grows
higher than the soul can hope or mind can hide)
and this is the wonder that's keeping the stars apart

I carry your heart (I carry it in my heart)

And now I’m looking at you,” he said, “and you’re asking me if I still want you, as if I could stop loving you. As if I would want to give up the thing that makes me stronger than anything else ever has. I never dared give much of myself to anyone before – bits of myself to the Lightwoods, to Isabelle and Alec, but it took years to do it – but, Clary, since the first time I saw you, I have belonged to you completely. I still do. If you want me.




Life will break you. Nobody can protect you from that, and living alone won't either, for solitude will also break you with its yearning. You have to love. You have to feel. It is the reason you are here on earth. You are here to risk your heart. You are here to be swallowed up. And when it happens that you are broken, or betrayed, or left, or hurt, or death brushes near, let yourself sit by an apple tree and listen to the apples falling all around you in heaps, wasting their sweetness. Tell yourself you tasted as many as you could.

There are two basic motivating forces: fear and love. When we are afraid, we pull back from life. When we are in love, we open to all that life has to offer with passion, excitement, and acceptance. We need to learn to love ourselves first, in all our glory and our imperfections. If we cannot love ourselves, we cannot fully open to our ability to love others or our potential to create. Evolution and all hopes for a better world rest in the fearlessness and open-hearted vision of people who embrace life.

We live and breathe words. .... It was books that made me feel that perhaps I was not completely alone. They could be honest with me, and I with them. Reading your words, what you wrote, how you were lonely sometimes and afraid, but always brave; the way you saw the world, its colors and textures and sounds, I felt--I felt the way you thought, hoped, felt, dreamt. I felt I was dreaming and thinking and feeling with you. I dreamed what you dreamed, wanted what you wanted--and then I realized that truly I just wanted you.

Everyone, at some point in their lives, wakes up in the middle of the night with the feeling that they are all alone in the world, and that nobody loves them now and that nobody will ever love them, and that they will never have a decent night's sleep again and will spend their lives wandering blearily around a loveless landscape, hoping desperately that their circumstances will improve, but suspecting, in their heart of hearts, that they will remain unloved forever. The best thing to do in these circumstances is to wake somebody else up, so that they can feel this way, too.


I love you for what you are, but I love you yet more for what you are going to be.
I love you not so much for your realities as for your ideals. I pray for your desires that they may be great, rather than for your satisfactions, which may be so hazardously little.
A satisfied flower is one whose petals are about to fall. The most beautiful rose is one hardly more than a bud wherein the pangs and ecstasies of desire are working for a larger and finer growth. Not always shall you be what you are now. You are going forward toward something great. I am on the way with you and therefore I love you.

You are a ukulele beyond my microphone
You are a Yukon beyond my Micronesia
You are a union beyond my meiosis
You are a unicycle beyond my migration
You are a universe beyond my mitochondria
You are a Eucharist beyond my Miles Davis
You are a euphony beyond my myocardiogram
You are a unicorn beyond my Minotaur
You are a eureka beyond my maitai
You are a Yuletide beyond my minesweeper
You are a euphemism beyond my myna bird


The milkman; which remembers to plant bulbs;
Which answers letters; which knows the way
The money goes; which deals with dentists

And Road Fund Tax and meeting trains,
And postcards to the lonely; which upholds

The permanently rickety elaborate
Structures of living, which is Atlas.

And maintenance is the sensible side of love,
Which knows what time and weather are doing
To my brickwork; insulates my faulty wiring;
Laughs at my dryrotten jokes; remembers
My need for gloss and grouting; which keeps
My suspect edifice upright in air,
As Atlas did the sky.

When you come to me, unbidden,
Beckoning me
To long-ago rooms,
Where memories lie.

Offering me, as to a child, an attic,
Gatherings of days too few.
Baubles of stolen kisses.
Trinkets of borrowed loves.
Trunks of secret words,

I CRY.

When, in disgrace with fortune and men’s eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And look upon myself and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man’s art and that man’s scope
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven’s gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.

Sometimes she is like sherry, like the sun through a vessel of glass,
Like light through an oriel window in a room of yellow wood;
Sometimes she is the colour of lions, of sand in the fire of noon,
Sometimes as bruised with shadows as the afternoon.

Sometimes she moves like rivers, sometimes like trees;
Or tranced and fixed like South Pole silences;
Sometimes she is beauty, sometimes fury, sometimes neither,
Sometimes nothing, drained of meaning, null as water.

Sometimes, when she makes me pea-soup or plays me Schumann,
I love her one way; sometimes I love her another
More disturbing way when she opens her mouth in the dark;
Sometimes I like her with camellias, sometimes with a parsley-stalk,
Sometimes I like her swimming in a mirror on the wall;
Sometimes I don’t like her at all.

When we are old and these rejoicing veins
Are frosty channels to a muted stream,
And out of all our burning their remains
No feeblest spark to fire us, even in dream,
This be our solace: that it was not said
When we were young and warm and in our prime,
Upon our couch we lay as lie the dead,
Sleeping away the unreturning time.
O sweet, O heavy-lidded, O my love,
When morning strikes her spear upon the land,
And we must rise and arm us and reprove
The insolent daylight with a steady hand,
Be not discountenanced if the knowing know
We rose from rapture but an hour ago.

She is neither pink nor pale,
And she never will be all mine;
She learned her hands in a fairy-tale,
And her mouth on a valentine.

She has more hair than she needs;
In the sun ’tis a woe to me!
And her voice is a string of coloured beads,
Or steps leading into the sea.

She loves me all that she can,
And her ways to my ways resign;
But she was not made for any man,
And she never will be all mine.

When, in disgrace with fortune and men’s eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And look upon myself and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man’s art and that man’s scope
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven’s gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.

What sound was that?

I turn away, into the shaking room.

What was that sound that came in on the dark?
What is this maze of light it leaves us in?
What is this stance we take,
To turn away and then turn back?
What did we hear?

It was the breath we took when we first met.

Listen. It is here.


I think I was searching for treasures or stones
in the clearest of pools
when your face…

when your face,
like the moon in a well
where I might wish…

might well wish
for the iced fire of your kiss;
only on water my lips, where your face…

where your face was reflected, lovely,
not really there when I turned
to look behind at the emptying air…

the emptying air.

It’s all I have to bring today—
This, and my heart beside—
This, and my heart, and all the fields—
And all the meadows wide—
Be sure you count—should I forget
Some one the sum could tell—
This, and my heart, and all the Bees
Which in the Clover dwell.

I came to you one rainless August night.
You taught me how to live without the rain.
You are thirst and thirst is all I know.
You are sand, wind, sun, and burning sky,
The hottest blue. You blow a breeze and brand
Your breath into my mouth. You reach—then bend
Your force, to break, blow, burn, and make me new.
You wrap your name tight around my ribs
And keep me warm. I was born for you.
Above, below, by you, by you surrounded.
I wake to you at dawn. Never break your
Knot. Reach, rise, blow, Sálvame, mi dios,
Trágame, mi tierra. Salva, traga, Break me,
I am bread. I will be the water for your thirst.


Promise Yourself

To be so strong that nothing
can disturb your peace of mind.
To talk health, happiness, and prosperity
to every person you meet.

To make all your friends feel
that there is something in them
To look at the sunny side of everything
and make your optimism come true.

To think only the best, to work only for the best,
and to expect only the best.
To be just as enthusiastic about the success of others
as you are about your own.

To forget the mistakes of the past
and press on to the greater achievements of the future.
To wear a cheerful countenance at all times
and give every living creature you meet a smile.

To give so much time to the improvement of yourself
that you have no time to criticize others.
To be too large for worry, too noble for anger, too strong for fear,
and too happy to permit the presence of trouble.

To think well of yourself and to proclaim this fact to the world,
not in loud words but great deeds.
To live in faith that the whole world is on your side
so long as you are true to the best that is in you.

A glimpse through an interstice caught,
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremark’d seated in a corner,
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand,
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest,
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word.

I wanted to make myself like the ravine
so that all good things
would flow into me.

Because the ravine is lowly,
it receives an abundance.

This sounds wonderful
to everyone
who suffers from lacking,
but consider, too, that a ravine
keeps nothing out:

in flows a peach
with only one bite taken out of it,
but in flows, too,
the body of a stiff mouse
half cooked by the heat of the stove
it was toughening under.

I have an easygoing way about me.
I’ve been an inviting host —
meaning to, not meaning to.
Oops — he’s approaching with his tongue
already out
and moving.

Analyze the risks
of becoming a ravine.

Compare those with the risks
of becoming a well
with a well-bolted lid.

Which I’d prefer
depends largely on which kinds
of animals were inside me
when the lid went on
and how likely they’d be
to enjoy the water,
vs. drown, freeze, or starve.

The lesson: close yourself off
at exactly the right time.

On the day that you wake up
under some yellow curtains
with a smile on your face,

lock the door.
Live out your days
untroubled like that.

Her body is not so white as
anemone petals nor so smooth—nor
so remote a thing. It is a field
of the wild carrot taking
the field by force; the grass
does not raise above it.
Here is no question of whiteness,
white as can be, with a purple mole
at the center of each flower.
Each flower is a hand’s span
of her whiteness. Wherever
his hand has lain there is
a tiny purple blossom under his touch
to which the fibres of her being
stem one by one, each to its end,
until the whole field is a
white desire, empty, a single stem,
a cluster, flower by flower,
a pious wish to whiteness gone over—
or nothing.
I love you as a sheriff searches for a walnut
That will solve a murder case unsolved for years
Because the murderer left it in the snow beside a window
Through which he saw her head, connecting with
Her shoulders by a neck, and laid a red
Roof in her heart. For this we live a thousand years;
For this we love, and we live because we love, we are not
Inside a bottle, thank goodness! I love you as a
Kid searches for a goat; I am crazier than shirttails
In the wind, when you’re near, a wind that blows from
The big blue sea, so shiny so deep and so unlike us;
I think I am bicycling across an Africa of green and white fields
Always, to be near you, even in my heart
When I’m awake, which swims, and also I believe that you
Are trustworthy as the sidewalk which leads me to
The place where I again think of you, a new
Harmony of thoughts! I love you as the sunlight leads the prow
Of a ship which sails
From Hartford to Miami, and I love you
Best at dawn, when even before I am awake the sun
Receives me in the questions which you always pose.

Sometimes she is like sherry, like the sun through a vessel of glass,
Like light through an oriel window in a room of yellow wood;
Sometimes she is the colour of lions, of sand in the fire of noon,
Sometimes as bruised with shadows as the afternoon.

Sometimes she moves like rivers, sometimes like trees;
Or tranced and fixed like South Pole silences;
Sometimes she is beauty, sometimes fury, sometimes neither,
Sometimes nothing, drained of meaning, null as water.

Sometimes, when she makes me pea-soup or plays me Schumann,
I love her one way; sometimes I love her another
More disturbing way when she opens her mouth in the dark;
Sometimes I like her with camellias, sometimes with a parsley-stalk,
Sometimes I like her swimming in a mirror on the wall;
Sometimes I don’t like her at all.

When we are old and these rejoicing veins
Are frosty channels to a muted stream,
And out of all our burning their remains
No feeblest spark to fire us, even in dream,
This be our solace: that it was not said
When we were young and warm and in our prime,
Upon our couch we lay as lie the dead,
Sleeping away the unreturning time.
O sweet, O heavy-lidded, O my love,
When morning strikes her spear upon the land,
And we must rise and arm us and reprove
The insolent daylight with a steady hand,
Be not discountenanced if the knowing know
We rose from rapture but an hour ago.

She is neither pink nor pale,
And she never will be all mine;
She learned her hands in a fairy-tale,
And her mouth on a valentine.

She has more hair than she needs;
In the sun ’tis a woe to me!
And her voice is a string of coloured beads,
Or steps leading into the sea.

She loves me all that she can,
And her ways to my ways resign;
But she was not made for any man,
And she never will be all mine.

Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;
Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen.Only your word will heal the injury
To my hurt heart, while yet the wound is clean—
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene.Upon my word, I tell you faithfully
Through life and after death you are my queen;
For with my death the whole truth shall be seen.
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;
Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen.

To an army wife, in Sardis:

Some say a cavalry corps,
some infantry, some, again,
will maintain that the swift oars
of our fleet are the finest
sight on dark earth; but I say
that whatever one loves, is.
This is easily proved: did
not Helen—she who had scanned
the flower of the world’s manhood—
choose as first among men one
who laid Troy’s honor in ruin?
warped to his will, forgetting
love due her own blood, her own
child, she wandered far with him.
So Anactoria, although you
being far away forget us,
the dear sound of your footstep
and light glancing in your eyes
would move me more than glitter
of Lydian horse or armored
tread of mainland infantry

Love
Is a ripe plum
Growing on a purple tree.
Taste it once
And the spell of its enchantment
Will never let you be.

Love
Is a bright star
Glowing in far Southern skies.
Look too hard
And its burning flame
Will always hurt your eyes.

Love
Is a high mountain
Stark in a windy sky.
If you
Would never lose your breath
Do not climb too high.


How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.
I love thee to the depth and breadth and height
My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight
For the ends of being and ideal grace.
I love thee to the level of every day’s
Most quiet need, by sun and candle-light.
I love thee freely, as men strive for right;
I love thee purely, as they turn from praise.
I love thee with the passion put to use
In my old griefs, and with my childhood’s faith.
I love thee with a love I seemed to lose
With my lost saints. I love thee with the breath,
Smiles, tears, of all my life; and, if God choose,
I shall but love thee better after death.

Do you remember still the falling stars
that like swift horses through the heavens raced
and suddenly leaped across the hurdles
of our wishes—do you recall? And we
did make so many! For there were countless numbers
of stars: each time we looked above we were
astounded by the swiftness of their daring play,
while in our hearts we felt safe and secure
watching these brilliant bodies disintegrate,
knowing somehow we had survived their fall.

Speak earth and bless me with what is richest
make sky flow honey out of my hips
rigis mountains
spread over a valley
carved out by the mouth of rain.

And I knew when I entered her I was
high wind in her forests hollow
fingers whispering sound
honey flowed
from the split cup
impaled on a lance of tongues
on the tips of her breasts on her navel
and my breath
howling into her entrances
through lungs of pain.

Greedy as herring-gulls
or a child
I swing out over the earth
over and over
again.


The sky was lit
by the splendor of the moon

So powerful
I fell to the ground

Your love
has made me sure

I am ready to forsake
this worldly life
and surrender
to the magnificence
of your Being

Marriage is not
a house, or even a tent

it is before that, and colder:

the edge of the forest, the edge
of the desert
the unpainted stairs
at the back, where we squat
outdoors, eating popcorn

where painfully and with wonder

at having survived
this far

we are learning to make fire

My desire
is always the same; wherever Life
deposits me:
I want to stick my toe
& soon my whole body
into the water.
I want to shake out a fat broom
& sweep dried leaves
bruised blossoms
dead insects
& dust.
I want to grow
something.
It seems impossible that desire
can sometimes transform into devotion;
but this has happened.
And that is how I’ve survived:
how the hole
I carefully tended
in the garden of my heart
grew a heart
to fill it.

I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead;
I lift my lids and all is born again.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

The stars go waltzing out in blue and red,
And arbitrary blackness gallops in:
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.

I dreamed that you bewitched me into bed
And sung me moon-struck, kissed me quite insane.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

God topples from the sky, hell’s fires fade:
Exit seraphim and Satan’s men:
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.

I fancied you’d return the way you said,
But I grow old and I forget your name.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

I should have loved a thunderbird instead;
At least when spring comes they roar back again.
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

love is a place
& through this place of
love move
(with brightness of peace)
all places

yes is a world
& in this world of
yes live
(skillfully curled)
all worlds


When I cannot look at your face
I look at your feet.
Your feet of arched bone,
your hard little feet.
I know that they support you,
and that your sweet weight
rises upon them.
Your waist and your breasts,
the doubled purple
of your nipples,
the sockets of your eyes
that have just flown away,
your wide fruit mouth,
your red tresses,
my little tower.
But I love your feet
only because they walked
upon the earth and upon
the wind and upon the waters,
until they found me.

You and I
Have so much love,
That it
Burns like a fire,
In which we bake a lump of clay
Molded into a figure of you
And a figure of me.
Then we take both of them,
And break them into pieces,
And mix the pieces with water,
And mold again a figure of you,
And a figure of me.
I am in your clay.
You are in my clay.
In life we share a single quilt.
In death we will share one bed.

Love is a fire that burns unseen,
a wound that aches yet isn’t felt,
an always discontent contentment,
a pain that rages without hurting,

a longing for nothing but to long,
a loneliness in the midst of people,
a never feeling pleased when pleased,
a passion that gains when lost in thought.

It’s being enslaved of your own free will;
it’s counting your defeat a victory;
it’s staying loyal to your killer.

But if it’s so self-contradictory,
how can Love, when Love chooses,
bring human hearts into sympathy?

Never give all the heart, for love
Will hardly seem worth thinking of
To passionate women if it seem
Certain, and they never dream
That it fades out from kiss to kiss;
For everything that’s lovely is
But a brief, dreamy, kind delight.
O never give the heart outright,
For they, for all smooth lips can say,
Have given their hearts up to the play.
And who could play it well enough
If deaf and dumb and blind with love?
He that made this knows all the cost,
For he gave all his heart and lost.

Outside the sky is light with stars;
There’s a hollow roaring from the sea.
And, alas! for the little almond flowers,
The wind is shaking the almond tree.

How little I thought, a year ago,
In the horrible cottage upon the Lee
That he and I should be sitting so
And sipping a cup of camomile tea.

Light as feathers the witches fly,
The horn of the moon is plain to see;
By a firefly under a jonquil flower
A goblin toasts a bumble-bee.

We might be fifty, we might be five,
So snug, so compact, so wise are we!
Under the kitchen-table leg
My knee is pressing against his knee.

Our shutters are shut, the fire is low,
The tap is dripping peacefully;
The saucepan shadows on the wall
Are black and round and plain to see.



We swan-dive into the volcano, burning;
We’re creatures of the fire,
Mingled male and female, yearning
For the heat, the sweet explosion of desire.

I splash into the pleasure, all consuming;
I’m joyfully insane,
My passion for you deep, and fully blooming;
Long after, sweet warm flickers still remain.

You make my body sizzle with your kisses,
And yet there’s so much more;
My heart is kindled, too; It knows what bliss is,
This closeness that I’ve never felt before.

My body and my heart belong to you;
I’m peaceful and complete.
I see more adventures coming for we two,
We creatures of the tender fire and heat.

Bonded to you in emotional bliss,
united in physical rapture,
I realize my dreams and fantasies.
Engulfed in contentment
and satisfaction,
I know heaven in your arms.
My intense hunger nourished,
deep yearnings fulfilled,
I am open to you in total trust.
You are my refuge,
my everything

If not for you, I wouldn’t know
What true love really meant.
I’d never feel this inner peace;
I couldn’t be content.

If not for you, I’d never have
The pleasures of romance.
I’d miss the bliss, the craziness,
Of love’s sweet, silly dance.

I have to feel your tender touch;
I have to hear your voice;
No other one could take your place;
You’re it; I have no choice.

If not for you, I’d be adrift;
I don’t know what I’d do;
I’d be searching for my other half,
Incomplete, if not for you.


I’ve held others before,
But it was never like this,
Where my body inhales you
And quivers with bliss,

Where my senses are reeling
From the strength of desire,
And if I can’t have you soon,
I’ll be consumed by the fire.

Before I met you,
I thought I was happy,
and I was,
but I had never known
the rich contentment,
deep satisfaction,
and total fulfillment
you brought to me
when you came into my life.
Before I met you,
I felt a lot of things,
good things,
but I had never experienced
the indescribably intense
feelings I have for you.
Before I met you,
I thought I knew myself,
and I did,
but you looked deep inside me
and found fresh new things
for us to share.
Before I met you,
I thought I knew about love,
but I didn’t,
until I met you.

Let me sing you a love song
About what I feel in my heart;
Butterflies can't find nectar
Whenever we're apart.

You're a flower in bloom.
In the dark, in the gloom,
It's you who brightens my day.
How many ways do I need you?
Every day, every way, come what may.

Our love is the long lasting kind;
We’ve been together quite awhile.
I love you for so many things,
Your voice, your touch, your kiss, your smile.

You accept me as I am;
I can relax and just be me.
Even when my quirks come out,
You think they’re cute; you let me be.

With you, there’s nothing to resist;
You’re irresistible to me.
I’m drawn to you in total trust;
I give myself to you willingly.

Your sweet devotion never fails;
You view me with a patient heart.
You love me, dear, no matter what.
You’ve been that way right from the start.

Those are just a few reasons why
I’ll always love you like I do.
We’ll have a lifetime full of love,
And it will happen because of you.


You're one in a million, my most special one;
Your radiant smile is as bright as the sun;
You're smart and caring and have many great charms,
And my heart really sings when you're wrapped in my arms.

I'm happy you chose me from all of the rest,
And I'm proud 'cause I know that I got the best.
You're so cute and sweet, and you glow like a pearl;
I just love you so much, my most wonderful girl!


When you’re away from me
I long for you...
in my thoughts,
in the center of my soul.
I yearn to see
the affection in your eyes...
blue depths of love for me.
I crave the safe warmth
of your arms around me...
my cave of comfort, ease and peace.
My body aches with hunger for you...
the exquisite torture
of delayed ecstasy,
coming soon, coming soon.
I long for you, I yearn for you,
I ache for you...
Please, bring all that I crave
in your incomparable self.
Come to me. Come to me.

How did this miracle happen
That we're so very blessed,
So close…and more contented,
Than I ever would have guessed.

I never thought that I
Could spend each precious minute
With just one special person
And find happiness within it.

I've learned so much from you
About loving, sharing, giving;
I know if I hadn't met you,
I wouldn't be really living.

We're facing life together;
We're handling joy and sorrow;
I'm glad you're on my side,
Whatever comes tomorrow.

You're my perfect partner,
Sweet lover, trusted friend.
We're safe within our love,
A love that will never end.


I love you for the warm, sweet affection
in your eyes
whenever you look at me,
and the special smile
you save only for me.
I love that you always seek
to have your body close to mine,
reaching out to touch,
to hold my hand,
to wrap your arms around me.
I love how you show me you care
by looking for ways
to make my life easier and more comfortable.
I love that when I ask you to do things,
you try to do them
instead of thinking me demanding.
I love that your favorite place is near me,
that you’d rather be with me
than anywhere else.
I love you for more reasons
than this page has space to write,
so I’ll try to tell you and show you in person
all the things I love about you.

No matter what I look like,
Whether pretty or plain you see,
When I’m all dressed up or in PJs,
You just keep on loving me.

Sometimes I’m happy and cheerful;
Other times grumpy and sad;
Your absolute love never wavers,
Whether I’m grouchy or glad.

Sometimes I try to change you;
And sometimes I criticize;
But I feel something melting within me,
When I see all the love in your eyes.

Your tolerance is endless,
However I choose to be;
Having my love makes you happy,
So you just keep on loving me.

And that is why, my darling,
Whatever else I do,
One thing is sure; no matter what,
I’ll just keep on loving you.

I had many loves before I met you,
interesting loves,
companionable, fun-loving,
comfortable loves,
but only one real love, unique love...
like you.
No one made my heart pound,
my skin damp, everything juicy
through and through...
like you.
None left me breathless,
panting with excitement,
satisfaction, and finally peace,
like you.
Before you, there were others,
but none captured
my mind, heart and soul forever...
like you.

No one loves me like you do;
I’ve never felt like this;
You please me in so many ways,
With a word, a caress, a kiss.

No one understands me like you do;
You see me deep inside,
You choose to overlook my flaws,
The ones I try to hide.

No one satisfies me like you do,
When our bodies intertwine;
You give so much with your tender touch,
You’re amazing, and you’re mine!

No one loves me like you do;
You fill my every need,
And that is why, my darling,
I’ll follow wherever you lead.

I always yearn to come to you,
be with you,
connect with you,
unite with you,
merge with you.
I always love to nurture you,
nourish you,
meet your needs,
feed your hungers.
I will always cherish you,
treasure you,
adore you.
I aways want to be yours,
always.

When I think of you, you fill my mind;
There’s no more thinking room I find.
I’ve never had such thoughts before;
I’m lost in you, whom I adore.

I think no more of mundane things,
Like common pleasures that living brings.
I just think of you, and I’m filled with dreams;
To keep your love fills all my schemes.

How could anyone ever know,
The sweet dreams that I dreamt as a youth,
Could blossom and focus and grow,
Until now they’d turn up as a truth.

A truth filled with blessing and wonder,
A truth filled with love and with caring,
A truth with a voice loud as thunder,
A truth with a message worth sharing.

For you, my love, filled all my dreams,
Of a life I thought never could be.
Now with you at my side, I’m contented;
For my dreaming came true, don’t you see?

I never gave up on my dreaming,
I persisted because I just knew,
A wait for real love is worth waiting,
Now you’re here, and my dreams have come true.

Sometimes a man’s mind and tongue
seem disconnected.
My mind realizes your wonderfulness,
but my tongue might fail to tell you.
Maybe, since my eyes and brain
see how very obvious
your lovely, endearing qualities are,
my tongue thinks
I don’t need to let you know.
In case there is any doubt
about what I am thinking and feeling,
I am writing it down for you:
I always think
you are the prettiest, smartest,
most wonderful, kindest,
most loveable girl
in all the world.
I want to hug, kiss, love
and adore you forever.
Please try to have patience
with the negligence of my tongue.
I am working to keep it in the loop better.


My thoughts of you are like raindrops on flowers...
Beautiful.
My thoughts of you are like a rainbow at a splashing waterfall...
Beautiful.
My thoughts of you are like a full moon
shining through a cloudy night sky...
Beautiful.
No matter what wonders my eyes have seen,
Nothing compares to the beauty I see
when I look at you.
My love for you is beautiful.

We all are explorers on the great sea of life;
We search and we hunt for our pleasure.
Some adventures are fruitful, and some disappoint,
But few find a gem they can treasure.

I’m so blessed I found you as my priceless prize;
You’re a treasure in every way.
I searched with the rest and discovered the best;
Finding you was my luckiest day.

What is it about you that makes me feel weak,
And gives me the goose bumps whenever you speak?
Why does the sight of you fill me with pleasure,
Like a spotlight that shines on a glorious treasure?

Are you so different from others I’ve known?
What qualities do you have that are yours alone?
What can it be that fills up my heart?
And makes me feel lost whenever we part?

There’s no easy answer for this marvelous bliss,
For the wonder I feel whenever we kiss,
For the fire that rages at the touch of your skin,
For the way my heart pounds for you way deep within.

It must be the power of love that I feel,
That ties me in bonds that seem strong as steel.
I could fight to get loose, but I’d rather give in;
To stay trapped by your charms is how I will win.

While others tell me I have faults and flaws,
And pick me all apart and criticize,
You love me, sweetheart, just the way I am;
I only see affection in your eyes.

My pesky quirks you only find endearing;
Your perfect mate is what you choose to see;
I love you for a multitude of reasons;
And most of all 'cause you let me be me.

I never have to change to meet your standards;
Acceptance is the greatest gift you give;
I appreciate you for your sweet devotion,
And I’ll love you for as long as we shall live.

Pirates bold in days of old
Searched the world for treasure rare,
But none they found as bright and sound,
As my girl with the reddish hair.

Precious gold and sparkling jewels
Were fortunes to make men care,
But none were worth a penny
Next to my girl with the reddish hair.

These pirates fought and died for wealth;
Their lives I wouldn’t share,
For I have the only wealth I need:
My girl with the reddish hair.

I was self sufficient,
gratified by my independence,
alone, but not lonely,
I thought.
But I was restless,
searching blindly for something
to fill an empty place
I didn't even know I had,
dimly aware
that I was somehow unfinished.
Then you came,
and filled everything,
every space, every need,
even secret dreams
I had concealed from myself.
I was self sufficient,
and restless;
Now I am profoundly peaceful
and complete,
because of you.

There's a story told of a wizard
Who, for money, would cast a spell,
And I'm sure that you met this wizard,
And you, his wares he did sell.

What else can explain how your smile
Can make my heartbeat roar,
Or how your look slows my breathing,
While causing my spirits to soar.

I'm sure that you and this wizard
Conspired to control my brain,
For I'm always thinking about you--
Feeling happy and slightly insane.

Now I hope I meet that same wizard,
For I'd give him all of my gold,
To make you want to stay with me,
And share happiness as we grow old.

I've had a dream, since I was young
Of just how life should be,
But through the years, try as I might,
That dream eluded me.

I dreamed of a life that was filled with bliss;
I dreamed of love and sharing.
I dreamed, imagined and creatively planned
An adventure for two who were caring.

The road to today was paved with the dreams
That slowly got ground to dust.
And I've trudged that road and carried my load
And tried very hard to adjust.

Each step made me stronger; each test made me wiser,
So on my long walk, I grew,
Till the time was right, one magical night,
For the road to make room for two.

Now my brain shouts your name, and your loving reply
Makes a place for you in my heart.
(Name), it cries--so tender, so wise--
Let's make the adventure start!

Together we're blessed with a perfect match,
Something that's bright and new.
It's not too late, so let's create
A life that makes dreams come true.

My thoughts of you come frequently;
They’re always filled with you and me.
No matter what I see or when,
It brings you back to mind again.

I’d be sitting, reading a book,
Or be out walking by a brook;
No matter what the path I took,
I’d see dream images of how you look.

Each day is filled with dreams of you;
I hope that all these dreams come true.

When love strikes us hard and makes mush of our brain,
When love sneaks in and makes us insane,
All sense can depart and leave the brain blank,
When love like that strikes it can drain our whole tank.

So beware of the power you exert over me,
For I’m under your spell; that’s clear as can be.
Whenever you’re near, my brain slips out of joint;
I fight my love, but what is the point?

You’re my strength and my weakness, for I love you so dearly,
And I hope our love shines through the years just as clearly.

You're the love of my life, my sweet, wonderful wife,
And that's what you'll always be.
I can hardly believe the good fortune I've had
Through the years since you married me.

Each year spent with you is a blessing; it's true!
Each year brings contentment so rare;
Each year binds us stronger and deeper in love,
and my wish is for more years to share!

My partner for life is you, my sweet wife;
I feel the bright joy you provide.
You fill life with pleasure;
You're my very own treasure;
Without you, I'd be empty inside.

Let's cherish the good times, learn from the bad,
Make the most of the life we share
If things get you down, don't worry; don't frown.
Always remember, I care!

I see you at school
And you glance my way,
Passing in the halls
In your ordinary day.

But anytime
Your eyes meet mine
Is a day so rare,
A day so fine.

Just another face,
I’m nothing to you;
You look but don’t see;
You haven’t a clue...

That my heart is racing;
I’m trembling inside;
So much love for you
I’m trying to hide.

You smile at others;
You pass me by;
I’m invisible,
And I want to cry.

You say that you like me,
But that we're just friends;
Can I feel the same?
Well I think it depends:

Can I quit breathing fast
Each time you appear?
Will my heart stop its pounding
Whenever you're near?

I'd like to feel nothing,
And get rid of the thrill.
I wish I'd stop loving you,
But I don't think I will.

I pray the Lord will bless you, Love,
With all that’s good from heaven above.
Lord, please keep him well, secure;
Create in us a love that’s pure,
Unselfish, giving, fond and true,
Fixed on loving and serving You.

When love first comes and all seems right;
It’s beyond our reason that we two can fight.
Yet fights will come, and anger might thrive,
So let’s try to be sure that our love will survive.

Let’s make our plans with similar goals,
So our wants and desires won’t hit hidden shoals
That set us crashing when things get hard,
So our love can stay strong even when it gets jarred.

For if love can stay strong when it’s tested by fire,
Then we'd share a future that most would admire,
A future where partners would strive side by side,
A future where love would always abide.

For many years we’ve lived and loved,
Our lives a rich delight.
Then one day’s events caused us to clash,
And the friction led to a fight.

You think that words can’t do a lot,
But words are not inert.
Words have the power to sooth and calm,
But can also cut and hurt.

If thoughts are kept within your head,
They can be dealt with by you alone.
But once the words are past your lips,
They’re like a monument carved in stone.

So always take the time to think,
Of the hurt that can take place,
Whenever a thought is hastily said,
To cause someone loss of face.

It’s hard work to tear the monument down,
To make the hurtful words lose their power.
It’s so much better not to speak the thought,
And just complain to yourself for an hour.

She walks in beauty, like the night 
Of cloudless climes and starry skies; 
And all that’s best of dark and bright 
Meet in her aspect and her eyes; 
Thus mellowed to that tender light 
Which heaven to gaudy day denies. 

One shade the more, one ray the less, 
Had half impaired the nameless grace 
Which waves in every raven tress, 
Or softly lightens o’er her face; 
Where thoughts serenely sweet express, 
How pure, how dear their dwelling-place. 

And on that cheek, and o’er that brow, 
So soft, so calm, yet eloquent, 
The smiles that win, the tints that glow, 
But tell of days in goodness spent, 
A mind at peace with all below, 
A heart whose love is innocent!

O my Luve is like a red, red rose 
   That’s newly sprung in June; 
O my Luve is like the melody 
   That’s sweetly played in tune. 

So fair art thou, my bonnie lass, 
   So deep in luve am I; 
And I will luve thee still, my dear, 
   Till a’ the seas gang dry. 

Till a’ the seas gang dry, my dear, 
   And the rocks melt wi’ the sun; 
I will love thee still, my dear, 
   While the sands o’ life shall run. 

And fare thee weel, my only luve! 
   And fare thee weel awhile! 
And I will come again, my luve, 
   Though it were ten thousand mile.

Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art— 
         Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night 
And watching, with eternal lids apart, 
         Like nature's patient, sleepless Eremite, 
The moving waters at their priestlike task 
         Of pure ablution round earth's human shores, 
Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask 
         Of snow upon the mountains and the moors— 
No—yet still stedfast, still unchangeable, 
         Pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast, 
To feel for ever its soft fall and swell, 
         Awake for ever in a sweet unrest, 
Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath, 
And so live ever—or else swoon to death.

You are the sun that shines brightly throughout my day.
You are the gravity that holds me down in every way.
You are the moon that shimmers throughout my night.
You are stars that glimmer oh so bright.

You are the oxygen that keeps me alive.
You are my heart that beats inside.
You are the blood that flows through me.
You are the only guy I can see.
You have the voice of when a mockingbird sings.
You are my everything.

You are my one and only.
You stop me from being so lonely.
We plan our future as if we have a clue.
I never want to lose you.
I want you to be my husband, and I want to be your wife.
I want to be with you for the rest of my life.

You are the sun that shines brightly throughout my day.
You are the gravity that holds me down in every way.
You are the moon that shimmers throughout my night.
You are stars that glimmer oh so bright.

You are the oxygen that keeps me alive.
You are my heart that beats inside.
You are the blood that flows through me.
You are the only guy I can see.
You have the voice of when a mockingbird sings.
You are my everything.

You are my one and only.
You stop me from being so lonely.
We plan our future as if we have a clue.
I never want to lose you.
I want you to be my husband, and I want to be your wife.
I want to be with you for the rest of my life.

A glimpse through an interstice caught, 
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremarkd seated in a corner, 
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand, 
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest, 
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word. 


simplicity   
say sleep

or
shall we   
shower

have an apple

you are   
as I need   
water

shall I move?   
do you dream?   
shallow snow

flesh   

melt this

Of many reasons I love you here is one

the way you write me from the gate at the airport
so I can tell you everything will be alright

so you can tell me there is a bird
trapped in the terminal      all the people
ignoring it       because they do not know
what to do with it       except to leave it alone
until it scares itself to death

it makes you terribly terribly sad

You wish you could take the bird outside
and set it free or       (failing that)
call a bird-understander
to come help the bird

All you can do is notice the bird
and feel for the bird       and write
to tell me how language feels
impossibly useless

but you are wrong

You are a bird-understander
better than I could ever be
who make so many noises
and call them song

These are your own words
your way of noticing
and saying plainly
of not turning away
from hurt

you have offered them
to me       I am only
giving them back

if only I could show you
how very useless
they are not


If ever two were one, then surely we.
If ever man were loved by wife, then thee.
If ever wife was happy in a man,
Compare with me, ye women, if you can.
I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold,
Or all the riches that the East doth hold.
My love is such that rivers cannot quench,
Nor ought but love from thee give recompense.
Thy love is such I can no way repay;
The heavens reward thee manifold, I pray.
Then while we live, in love let’s so persever,
That when we live no more, we may live ever.

 Busy old fool, unruly sun,
               Why dost thou thus,
Through windows, and through curtains call on us?
Must to thy motions lovers' seasons run?
               Saucy pedantic wretch, go chide
               Late school boys and sour prentices,
         Go tell court huntsmen that the king will ride,
         Call country ants to harvest offices,
Love, all alike, no season knows nor clime,
Nor hours, days, months, which are the rags of time.

               Thy beams, so reverend and strong
               Why shouldst thou think?
I could eclipse and cloud them with a wink,
But that I would not lose her sight so long;
               If her eyes have not blinded thine,
               Look, and tomorrow late, tell me,
         Whether both th' Indias of spice and mine
         Be where thou leftst them, or lie here with me.
Ask for those kings whom thou saw'st yesterday,
And thou shalt hear, All here in one bed lay.

               She's all states, and all princes, I,
               Nothing else is.
Princes do but play us; compared to this,
All honor's mimic, all wealth alchemy.
               Thou, sun, art half as happy as we,
               In that the world's contracted thus.
         Thine age asks ease, and since thy duties be
         To warm the world, that's done in warming us.
Shine here to us, and thou art everywhere;
This bed thy center is, these walls, thy sphere.

Take all my loves, my love, yea, take them all:
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call—
All mine was thine before thou hadst this more.
Then if for my love thou my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my love thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou this self deceivest
By wilful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb’ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love’s wrong than hate’s known injury.
    Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
    Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.

Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea
But sad mortality o’er-sways their power,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, how shall summer’s honey breath hold out
Against the wrackful siege of batt’ring days,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
Nor gates of steel so strong, but time decays?
O fearful meditation! where, alack,
Shall time’s best jewel from time’s chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
   O, none, unless this miracle have might,
   That in black ink my love may still shine bright.

Drink to me only with thine eyes, 
         And I will pledge with mine; 
Or leave a kiss but in the cup, 
         And I’ll not look for wine. 
The thirst that from the soul doth rise 
         Doth ask a drink divine; 
But might I of Jove’s nectar sup, 
         I would not change for thine. 

I sent thee late a rosy wreath, 
         Not so much honouring thee 
As giving it a hope, that there 
         It could not withered be. 
But thou thereon didst only breathe, 
         And sent’st it back to me; 
Since when it grows, and smells, I swear, 
         Not of itself, but thee.

How do we come to be here next to each other   
in the night
Where are the stars that show us to our love   
inevitable
Outside the leaves flame usual in darkness   
and the rain
falls cool and blessed on the holy flesh   
the black men waiting on the corner for   
a womanly mirage
I am amazed by peace
It is this possibility of you
asleep
and breathing in the quiet air


A glimpse through an interstice caught, 
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremark’d seated in a corner, 
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand, 
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest, 
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word. 


I love your lips when they’re wet with wine 
And red with a wild desire; 
I love your eyes when the lovelight lies 
Lit with a passionate fire. 
I love your arms when the warm white flesh 
Touches mine in a fond embrace; 
I love your hair when the strands enmesh 
Your kisses against my face. 

Not for me the cold, calm kiss 
Of a virgin’s bloodless love; 
Not for me the saint’s white bliss, 
Nor the heart of a spotless dove. 
But give me the love that so freely gives 
And laughs at the whole world’s blame, 
With your body so young and warm in my arms, 
It sets my poor heart aflame. 

So kiss me sweet with your warm wet mouth, 
Still fragrant with ruby wine, 
And say with a fervor born of the South 
That your body and soul are mine. 
Clasp me close in your warm young arms, 
While the pale stars shine above, 
And we’ll live our whole young lives away 
In the joys of a living love. 

I loved you first: but afterwards your love
Outsoaring mine, sang such a loftier song
As drowned the friendly cooings of my dove.
Which owes the other most? my love was long,
And yours one moment seemed to wax more strong;
I loved and guessed at you, you construed me
And loved me for what might or might not be –
Nay, weights and measures do us both a wrong.
For verily love knows not ‘mine’ or ‘thine;’
With separate ‘I’ and ‘thou’ free love has done,
For one is both and both are one in love:
Rich love knows nought of ‘thine that is not mine;’
Both have the strength and both the length thereof,
Both of us, of the love which makes us one.

You are like me, you will die too, but not today:   
you, incommensurate, therefore the hours shine:   
if I say to you “To you I say,” you have not been   
set to music, or broadcast live on the ghost   
radio, may never be an oil painting or
Old Master’s charcoal sketch: you are
a concordance of person, number, voice,
and place, strawberries spread through your name   
as if it were budding shrubs, how you remind me   
of some spring, the waters as cool and clear
(late rain clings to your leaves, shaken by light wind),   
which is where you occur in grassy moonlight:   
and you are a lily, an aster, white trillium
or viburnum, by all rights mine, white star   
in the meadow sky, the snow still arriving
from its earthwards journeys, here where there is   
no snow (I dreamed the snow was you,
when there was snow), you are my right,
have come to be my night (your body takes on   
the dimensions of sleep, the shape of sleep   
becomes you): and you fall from the sky
with several flowers, words spill from your mouth
in waves, your lips taste like the sea, salt-sweet (trees   
and seas have flown away, I call it
loving you): home is nowhere, therefore you,   
a kind of dwell and welcome, song after all,   
and free of any eden we can name

You have changed me already. I am a fireball
That is hurtling towards the sky to where you are
You can choose not to look up but I am a giant orange ball
That is throwing sparks upon your face
Oh look at them shake
Upon you like a great planet that has been murdered by change
O too this is so dramatic this shaking
Of my great planet that is bigger than you thought it would be
So you ran and hid
Under a large tree. She was graceful, I think
That tree although soon she will wither
Into ten black snakes upon your throat
And when she does I will be wandering as I always am
A graceful lady that is part museum
Of the voices of the universe everyone else forgets
I will hold your voice in a little box
And when you come upon me I won’t look back at you
You will feel a hand upon your heart while I place your voice back
Into the heart from where it came from
And I will not cry also
Although you will expect me to
I was wiser too than you had expected
For I knew all along you were mine

The shine on her buckle took precedence in sun
Her shine, I should say, could take me anywhere
It feels right to be up this close in tight wind
It feels right to notice all the shiny things about you
About you there is nothing I wouldn’t want to know
With you nothing is simple yet nothing is simpler
About you many good things come into relation
I think of proofs and grammar, vowel sounds, like
A is for knee socks, E for panties
I is for button down, O the blouse you wear
U is for hair clip, and Y your tight skirt
The music picks up again, I am the man I hope to be
The bright air hangs freely near your newly cut hair
It is so easy now to see gravity at work in your face
Easy to understand time, that dark process
To accept it as a beautiful process, your face

Things happen when you drink too much mescal.
One night, with not enough food in my belly,
he kept on buying.   I’m a girl who’ll fall
damn near in love with gratitude and, well, he
was hot and generous and so the least
that I could do was let him kiss me, hard
and soft and any way you want it, beast
and beauty, lime and salt—sweet Bacchus’ pards—
and when his friend showed up I felt so warm
and generous I let him kiss me too.
His buddy asked me if it was the worm
inside that makes me do the things I do.
I wasn’t sure which worm he meant, the one
I ate?   The one that eats at me alone?

My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,
and likes to rent her movies, for a treat.
It makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

The list of actresses who might employ
him as their slave is too long to repeat.
(My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,

Carole Lombard, Paulette Goddard, coy
Jean Arthur with that voice as dry as wheat ...)
It makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

Does he confess all this just to annoy
a loyal spouse? I know I can’t compete.
My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy.

And can’t a woman have her dreamboats? Boy,
I wouldn’t say my life is incomplete,
but some evening I could certainly enjoy

two hours with Cary Grant as my own toy.
I guess, though, we were destined not to meet.
My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,
which makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

In an effort to get people to look
into each other’s eyes more,
and also to appease the mutes,
the government has decided
to allot each person exactly one hundred   
and sixty-seven words, per day.

When the phone rings, I put it to my ear   
without saying hello. In the restaurant   
I point at chicken noodle soup.
I am adjusting well to the new way.

Late at night, I call my long distance lover,   
proudly say I only used fifty-nine today.   
I saved the rest for you.

When she doesn’t respond,
I know she’s used up all her words,   
so I slowly whisper I love you
thirty-two and a third times.
After that, we just sit on the line   
and listen to each other breathe.

She goes out to hang the windchime
in her nightie and her work boots.
It’s six-thirty in the morning
and she’s standing on the plastic ice chest
tiptoe to reach the crossbeam of the porch,

windchime in her left hand,
hammer in her right, the nail
gripped tight between her teeth
but nothing happens next because
she’s trying to figure out
how to switch #1 with #3.

She must have been standing in the kitchen,
coffee in her hand, asleep,
when she heard it—the wind blowing
through the sound the windchime
wasn’t making
because it wasn’t there.

No one, including me, especially anymore believes
till death do us part,
but I can see what I would miss in leaving—
the way her ankles go into the work boots
as she stands upon the ice chest;
the problem scrunched into her forehead;
the little kissable mouth
with the nail in it.

Guy calls the doctor, says the wife’s   
contractions are five minutes apart.   
Doctor says, Is this her first child?
guy says, No, it’s her husband.

I promise to try to remember who   
I am. Wife gets up on one elbow,

says, I wanted to get married.   
It seemed a fulfillment of some

several things, a thing to be done.   
Even the diamond ring was some

thing like a quest, a thing they   
set you out to get and how insane

the quest is; how you have to turn   
it every way before you can even

think to seek it; this metaphysical   
refraining is in fact the quest. Who’d

have guessed? She sighs, I like   
the predictability of two, I like

my pleasures fully expected,   
when the expectation of them

grows patterned in its steady   
surprise. I’ve got my sweet

and tumble pat. Here on earth,   
I like to count upon a thing

like that. Thus explained   
the woman in contractions

to her lover holding on
the telephone for the doctor

to recover from this strange   
conversational turn. You say

you’re whom? It is a pleasure   
to meet you. She rolls her

eyes, but he’d once asked her   
Am I your first lover? and she’d   
said, Could be. Your face looks   
familiar. It’s the same type of

generative error. The grammar
of the spoken word will flip, let alone

the written, until something new is   
in us, and in our conversation.

For the first time, I listen to a lost
and secret recording of us
making love near-on ten years ago.

I recognize your voice, your sounds,
though if I knew no better,
I could be any man in any room.

After, the rising sounds of rising
and of dressing and once
as you step up close to the deck,

perhaps to pick up shoes, you sing
the chorus of Sunday Morning.
I call on you to hurry and we leave.

It does not end then; the tape rolls on.
A few late cars which sigh by
might have passed us walking away

triumphant, unaware we’ve left behind
this mop and mow mechanism
of silence to which we may never return.

He danced with tall grass
for a moment, like he was swaying
with a woman. Our gun barrels
glowed white-hot.
When I got to him,
a blue halo
of flies had already claimed him.
I pulled the crumbled photograph
from his fingers.
There's no other way
to say this: I fell in love.
The morning cleared again,
except for a distant mortar
& somewhere choppers taking off.
I slid the wallet into his pocket
& turned him over, so he wouldn't be
kissing the ground.

I didn’t fall in love. I fell through it:

Came out the other side moments later, hands full of matter, waking up from the dream of a bullet tearing through the middle of my body.

I no longer understand anything for longer than a long moment, or the time it takes to receive the shot.

This kind of gravity is like falling through a cloud, forgetting it all, and then being told about it later. On the day you fell through a cloud . . .

It must be true. If it were not, then when did these strands of silver netting attach to my hair?

The problem was finding that you were real and not just a dream of clouds.

If you weren’t real, I would address this letter to one of two entities: myself, or everyone else. The effect would be equivalent.

The act of falling happens in time. That is, it takes long enough for the falling to shear away from the moments before and the moments after, long enough for one to have thought I am falling. I have been falling. I continue to fall.

Falling through a ring, in this case, would not mean falling through the center of the annulus—a planet floats there. Falling through the ring means falling through the spaces between the objects that together make the ring.

On the way through, clasp your fists around the universe:

Nothing but ice-gravel.

But open your hands when you reach the other side. Quickly, before it melts.   

What did I leave you?

Methought I saw my late espoused saint
       Brought to me, like Alcestis, from the grave,
       Whom Jove's great son to her glad husband gave,
       Rescu'd from death by force, though pale and faint.
Mine, as whom wash'd from spot of child-bed taint
       Purification in the old Law did save,
       And such as yet once more I trust to have
       Full sight of her in Heaven without restraint,
Came vested all in white, pure as her mind;
       Her face was veil'd, yet to my fancied sight
       Love, sweetness, goodness, in her person shin'd
So clear as in no face with more delight.
       But Oh! as to embrace me she inclin'd,
       I wak'd, she fled, and day brought back my night.

Though beauty be the mark of praise, 
   And yours of whom I sing be such 
   As not the world can praise too much, 
Yet ’tis your virtue now I raise. 

A virtue, like allay, so gone 
   Throughout your form, as, though that move 
   And draw and conquer all men’s love, 
This sùbjects you to love of one. 

Wherein you triumph yet; because 
   ’Tis of yourself, and that you use 
   The noblest freedom, not to choose 
Against or faith or honor’s laws. 

But who should less expect from you, 
   In whom alone Love lives again? 
   By whom he is restored to men, 
And kept, and bred, and brought up true. 

His falling temples you have reared, 
   The withered garlands ta’en away; 
   His altars kept from the decay 
That envy wished, and nature feared; 

And on them burn so chaste a flame, 
   With so much loyalties’ expense, 
   As Love, t’ acquit such excellence, 
Is gone himself into your name. 

And you are he; the deity 
   To whom all lovers are designed 
   That would their better objects find; 
Among which faithful troop am I. 

Who, as an offspring at your shrine, 
   Have sung this hymn, and here entreat 
   One spark of your diviner heat 
To light upon a love of mine. 

Which, if it kindle not, but scant 
   Appear, and that to shortest view, 
   Yet give me leave t’ adore in you 
What I in her am grieved to want.

There is a hornet in the room   
and one of us will have to go   
out the window into the late   
August midafternoon sun. I
won. There is a certain challenge   
in being humane to hornets   
but not much. A launch draws   
two lines of wake behind it   
on the bay like a delta
with a melted base. Sandy   
billows, or so they look,
of feathery ripe heads of grass,   
an acid-yellow kind of
goldenrod glowing or glowering   
in shade. Rocks with rags   
of shadow, washed dust clouts   
that will never bleach.
It is not like this at all.   
The rapid running of the   
lapping water a hollow knock
of someone shipping oars:   
it’s eleven years since   
Frank sat at this desk and   
saw and heard it all   
the incessant water the   
immutable crickets only   
not the same: new needles   
on the spruce, new seaweed   
on the low-tide rocks   
other grass and other water   
even the great gold lichen   
on a granite boulder   
even the boulder quite   
literally is not the same


A day subtle and suppressed   
in mounds of juniper enfolding   
scratchy pockets of shadow
while bigness—rocks, trees, a stump—
stands shadowless in an overcast   
of ripe grass. There is nothing   
but shade, like the boggy depths   
of a stand of spruce, its resonance   
just the thin scream
of mosquitoes ascending.
Boats are light lumps on the bay   
stretching past erased islands   
to ocean and the terrible tumble   
and London (“rain persisting”)   
and Paris (“changing to rain”).   
Delicate day, setting the bright
of a young spruce against the cold
of an old one hung with unripe cones   
each exuding at its tip
gum, pungent, clear as a tear,   
a day tarnished and fractured   
as the quartz in the rocks
of a dulled and distant point,   
a day like a gull passing
with a slow flapping of wings   
in a kind of lope, without
breeze enough to shake loose   
the last of the fireweed flowers,
a faintly clammy day, like wet silk   
stained by one dead branch   
the harsh russet of dried blood.

It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.


It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.

It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.

Cherry plums suck a week’s soak,
overnight they explode into the scenery of before
your touch. The curtains open on the end of our past.
Pink trumpets on the vines bare to the hummingbirds.
Butterflies unclasp from the purse of their couplings, they
light and open on the doubled hands of eucalyptus fronds.
They sip from the pistils for seven generations that bear
them through another tongue as the first year of our
punishing mathematic begins clicking the calendar
forward. They land like seasoned rocks on the
decks of the cliffs. They take another turn
on the spiral of life where the blossoms
blush & pale in a day of dirty dawn
where the ghost of you webs
your limbs through branches
of cherry plum. Rare bird,
extinct color, you stay in
my dreams in x-ray. In
rerun, the bone of you
stripping sweethearts
folds and layers the
shedding petals of
my grief into a
decayed holo-
gram—my
for ever
empty
art.

The day is gone, and all its sweets are gone! 
Sweet voice, sweet lips, soft hand, and softer breast, 
Warm breath, light whisper, tender semi-tone, 
Bright eyes, accomplish’d shape, and lang’rous waist! 
Faded the flower and all its budded charms, 
Faded the sight of beauty from my eyes, 
Faded the shape of beauty from my arms, 
Faded the voice, warmth, whiteness, paradise – 
Vanish’d unseasonably at shut of eve, 
When the dusk holiday – or holinight 
Of fragrant-curtain’d love begins to weave 
The woof of darkness thick, for hid delight, 
But, as I’ve read love’s missal through to-day, 
He’ll let me sleep, seeing I fast and pray. 

Just being around you gives me a happiness that no one else could ever give me. You have given me a love that I had never known before .I love being with you and cannot imagine a world without you in it. Each morning, I wake up and thank God that you have been a part of my life. I just cannot find the words to tell you how happy I am that we met and got together. You have been the rock I turned to during difficulties and the guiding light that lit the way whenever I was lost. I want to tell you that my love is undying and eternal, but I can’t find a way to express it properly. I know that my love is enduring enough to last a lifetime, and I feel blessed that you are a part of my life. I wake up each day and bounce out of bed because I know that I will get to see or talk to you during the day.  I promise that I will always love you and keep you dear in my heart. I will be there for you whenever you need me and will love you no matter where life ends up taking us. You are my soul mate, and I cannot exist without you by me. I love you.

I Love being with you. There is no one else I'd rather be with you. You make me smile in a way no one else can. You're the first thing I wanna see in the morning, and the last thing I wanna see at night. I've never loved anyone the way I love you. You're my other half. My love ,my best boyfriend. My happy ever after. You're everything I have ever hoped and wished for. I love you and only you.

It feels like we just met yesterday, but at the same time I feel I have known you all my life. I love us. We’re the cutest .we make the perfect couple. We understand each other. We listen to each other. We inspire each other Everything else feel meaningless because the only thing that matters is You. I would be lost without you. Thank you for everything you have done for me

As I am writing this letter, I have thousands of thoughts running through my mind.
Through this letter I wanted to express my love for you that is honestly hard to put into words.
Do you know how much you mean to me?
There isn't a day that goes by when my mind isn't thinking of you.
You are the reason behind every piece of joy in my life.You are the one that has lifted me up to show me the beauty of life.There is no other person in this world that could have done that for me.
I want to give all of the happiness the world could possibly give.
You are my dream come true- you are the love of my life.

I know you are the only one for me. When I'am away from you, you are the one who is continuously on my mind.
From the moment when I first saw you, I know our friendship was going to blossom into something beautiful.
You are the true love in my life.
You are the only one who can make me feel the way you do.I look forward to the life we will be living together.
It is you that I want to sit next to as we are ageing and it is you I want to rest next to.

I hate being apart from you, but our long distance love gives me something to look forward to each and every day. I keep counting down the moments until I get to feel your arms wrapped around me again, until I get to fall asleep to the sound of your soft breathing. I love you and I miss you — Not seeing you has been slowly driving me insane. I cannot wait until the day when we live together.

Even after all of this time, I still get butterflies when you smile at me. I still feel light as air when you press your lips against me. Just thinking about you on top of me, trailing kisses across my chest and stomach and thighs, is making me want you. Badly. I hope we can fix that tonight. What do you say?

We have been seeing each other for a long time now but I was never able to express my love to you. This time, I am writing this letter to firmly express my heart out in front of you. I want to say that you are the driving force of my life who keeps me sane when I am agitated at times. You are the magician who knows the ways of calming me down and keeps her cool throughout. Your charms are beguiling and it is because of them that I have started loving you a thousand folds more. I have started adoring you more and more each day. I want our relationship to flourish this way forever and ever. And I am going to keep loving you more each and everyday.

There's no one who can take your place.
The way you smile, the way you look, the way you always know what I am thinking about,
the way you gave me hug when all was needed, the way you cry, laugh, listen and love.
You share your hopes and dreams and help me shared mine; you touch my life and there will never be another you.
You have touched me more profoundly than I ever thought you could touch me.
I love you.

You are the one who has given meaning to my life and I am very glad that our relationship has gone through a paradise visit from when it started. The stars are waiting to come out at night to remind us about the sparkling moments of our life.
May our love be a remarkable one which reach the moon and stars and bring a new meaning to life.

We both know we have a very special relationship -Without ever needing to say so — how in love we are.

But now I want to say you are very precious to me. I love to be close to you. You are more beautiful than sunshine, more precious than gold. You are sweeter than candy and more lovely than the moon. You are exquisite and delightful, special and unique. And what’s most astounding of all, you want to be with me.

I remember the first time I met you. It was one of the best moments of my life. I couldn't understand why you were so special to me. But the time we spent together was so enchanting that each moment without you feel like a punishment to me. I only know how difficult it was for me to restrain myself from rushing to you and to concentrate on my work. Sometimes when I couldn't bear your absence, I would call you up. And somewhere along the way, I myself opened up without even realizing it. We slowly developed a deep love, and eventually we both knew it. It was so beautiful a feeling

I am madly in love with you, my darling. 

The moment that I first met you,
I knew with absolute certainty and clarity that we were meant to be.
I wasn't being presumptuous when I thought so, 
for there was this voice within my soul that just validated this thought. 
This voice found validation the day you asked me out and I,
with absolute confidence in that voice, said yes to you.
Since that very day till today, 
I haven't regretted a moment in your company and that is how I know that I am lucky to have found you.
You are my every dream come true. 

I wanted to write you a love letter, and a thank you note Maybe it’s both. I want to thank you for all of the hugs you have offered me to squeeze the sadness out and all of the pep talks you have given me when I doubted myself. Most of all, thank you for being my partner. Thank you for being my best friend in the world.

You entered my heart Slowly, quietly and passionately
Your love spread through me.
Now Why are you so perfect,

God only knows..,

In every direction, there is you – just you.
My emotions are rising and I am facing short of breath;
My heart is beating fast
What madness, what obsession…
What can I say of my state now?
My heart, my soul, my whole world,
you are my only desire.

My sweetheart only You!!

I adore you. I long to hold you close to me. I feel such warmth and comfort when I am in your arms. I am relaxed and content when we sit on the couch and talk. My heart is at peace when lay on the floor and cuddle. My heart quivers when you touch my face and my passion flows when you touch my lips. I get immense pleasure from gently touching your face and feel tremendous yearning and passion when I touch your lips. I long to be near you. I want nothing more than to be close to you.

Since the time I met you, I must that you that I have never felt so divine in my entire life. I never thought I was capable of experiencing such type of emotions but I realized that just a look of you makes me feel bliss. You bring with you the warmth of spring, the joy of rain and the calmness of summers. My world has turned upside down since the time you have stepped into my life. You make me feel truly alive. All I want from you is the care and love I am longing for. Promise me that you will be by my side forever.

Hey, as you know things aren't working well with us, here I am writing this letter to you to let you know what I feel. Baby, I love you immensely. All I think about is you and the moments which make you mine. Babe, I am sorry if I was being too stubborn yesterday. Just remember that I am so much in love with you and I can't wait to see you in the evening. I am living the best time of my life with you and I don't want to have a fight. All I want is to love you and be with you. I love this life which we share.

I am so sorry I initiated a fight with you. Today, the whole day I was constantly thinking of you, you were on my mind every now and then. It is so crazy about me that today every little thing reminded me of you. I was imagining you by my side and your smile, your voice, your laugh giggled in my ears. I was thinking of you and felt the touch of your hands over mine. I am so sorry I fought with you. Your presence in my life completes me and makes me feel alive. Since the time you left the house, I feel deserted and unloved. Your name is at the edge of my lips since morning. Please forgive me and love me more. I feel so miserable without you. My fondness for you has no bounds. Come and hug me after reading this s I want you in my arms right now. 

It is important you read this letter, because the reason to write it will convince you of many things.

It was two years ago that you first told me you loved me and asked me to be your girlfriend. Remembering our first kiss is remembering since when my heart beats for you. Knowing you are with me makes my life a dream come true. I'm the luckiest woman in the world as I'm in love with my best friend.

My love for you have grown deeper. Whenever something good happens, you're the first person I want to share with.. When I am sad, I know that I can count on you to take me in your arms and tell me everything will be alright.

I just wanted let you know that I love you more than even the most heartfelt words can express.

You were already on my mind when I woke up this morning. I just can't stop thinking about you. You are the most important person in my life. So, I just wanted to say I love you, and I can't wait to see you again.

Just being with you has made all my dreams come true, and I want to do everything I can to make you feel that way too. You deserve to be treasured for being the sweetest, kindest, most thoughtful boyfriend any girl could ask for, and believe me, I do treasure youYours only,

Just a moment ago I thought about you and my heart was filled with gratitude. So before another moment goes by I want to say thank you.
Thank you for the late night laughs and the early morning kisses.
Thank you for holding my hand throughout this life and proving that good men do still exist. 
Thank you for your love and friendship. And most of all, thank you for the pleasure of being your wife.

If only I were a clever woman, I could describe to you my gorgeous bird, how you unite in yourself the beauties of form, plumage, and song!
I would tell you that you are the greatest marvel of all ages, and I should only be speaking the simple truth. But to put all this into suitable words, my superb one, I should require a voice far more harmonious than that which is bestowed upon my species –
I will not tell you to what degree you are dazzling and to the birds of sweet song who, as you know, are none the less beautiful and appreciative.
I love you, I love you. My Victor; I can not reiterate it too often; I can never express it as much as I feel it.
I recognize you in all the beauty that surrounds me in form, in colour, in perfume, in harmonious sound: all of these mean you to me. You are superior to all. I see and admire - you are all!
You are not only the solar spectrum with the seven luminous colours, but the sun himself, that illumines, warms, and revivifies! This is what you are, and I am the lowly woman that adores you.

No, nothing has the power to part me from you; our love is based upon virtue, and will last as long as our lives.
Adieu, there is nothing that I will not brave for your sake; you deserve much more than that.

I belong to you; there is really no other way of expressing it, and that is not strong enough.
How could I, fool that I am, go on sitting in my office, or here at home, instead of leaping onto a train with my eyes shut and opening them only when I am with you?

I already love in you your beauty, but I am only beginning to love in you that which is eternal and ever precious - your heart, your soul.
Beauty one could get to know and fall in love with in one hour and cease to love it as speedily; but the soul one must learn to know. 

I Love you because I love you,
Because it would be impossible
for me nit to love you.
I love you without question,
without calculation, without reason good or bad,
faithfully, with all my heart and soul, and every faculty.
Believe it, for it is true.
If you cannot believe, I being at your side,
I will make a drastic effort to force you to do so.

I love you.
You are truly the one for me.
The day would not be complete without you.
You are my smile, my tears,
my laughter, my heart, my soul,
my love, my life.
You are my everything.
I never want to be without you.
I want to grow old with you.

The day when I started loving you is the day that I lost myself.
Your love has so much power that I can be what you meant to be.
Your love has given me the start to foresee.
The love that you have given me is truly selfless.
When you don't see me baby I feel so restless.
Not a single moment I would like to stay without you as you
know that you do for me and ways which I so want to see.
My baby you are and will remain in my destiny.
I love you so much.

You are my only love.
You have me completely in your power.
I know and feel that if I am to write anything fine and noble in the future I shall do so only by listening at the doors of your heart.
I would like to go through life side by side with you, telling you more and more until we grew to be one being together until the hour should come for us to die.

You fear, sometimes, I do not love you so much as you wish?
My dear Girl I love you ever and ever and without reserve.
The more I have known you the more have I lov'd. In every way - even my jealousies have been agonies of Love, in the hottest fit I ever had I would have died for you.
You are always new. The last of your kisses was ever the sweetest; the last smile the brightest; the last movement the gracefullest.
When you pass'd my window home yesterday, I was fill'd with as much admiration as if I had then seen you for the first time. Even if you did not love me I could not help an entire devotion to you: how much more deeply then must I feel for you knowing you love me.
My Mind has been the most discontented and restless one that ever was put into a body too small for it.
I never felt my Mind repose upon anything with complete and undistracted enjoyment - upon no person but you.
When you are in the room my thoughts never fly out of window: you always concentrate my whole senses.

In that word, beautiful in all languages, but most so in yours--Amor mio--is comprised my existence here and hereafter.
I feel I exist here, and I feel I shall exist hereafter,--to what purpose you will decide; my destiny rests with you,
But I more than love you, and cannot cease to love you.
Think of me, sometimes, when the Alps and ocean divide us,--but they never will, unless you wish it.


I have a thousand images of you in an hour; all different and all coming back to the same... And we love. And we've got the most amazing secrets and understandings. Noel, whom I love, who is so beautiful and wonderful. I think of you eating omlette on the ground. I think of you once against a sky line: and on the hill that Sunday morning.
And that night was the most wonderful of all. The light and the shadow and quietness and the rain and the wood. And you. You are so beautiful and wonderful that I daren't write to you... And kinder than God. Your arms and lips and hair and shoulders and voice - you.

Dearest, - I wish I had the gift of making rhymes, for methinks there is poetry in my head and heart since I have been in love with you.
You are a Poem.
Of what sort, then? Epic?
Mercy on me, no! A sonnet?
No; for that is too labored and artificial.
You are a sort of sweet, simple, gay, pathetic ballad, which Nature is singing, sometimes with tears, sometimes with smiles, and sometimes with intermingled smiles and tears.


I wake filled with thoughts of you. Your portrait and the intoxicating evening which we spent yesterday have left my senses in turmoil. Sweet, incomparable Josephine, what a strange effect you have on my heart! Are you angry? Do I see you looking sad? Are you worried?... My soul aches with sorrow, and there can be no rest for you lover; but is there still more in store for me when, yielding to the profound feelings which overwhelm me, I draw from your lips, from your heart a love which consumes me with fire? Ah! it was last night that I fully realized how false an image of you your portrait gives!
You are leaving at noon; I shall see you in three hours.

The world may never put a face with this mysterious woman or know the circumstances of their affair and his letters are all that is left of a love as intensely passionate as the music for which Beethoven became famous. Compositions such as the Moonlight Sonata as well as Beethoven's many symphonies express eloquently the tragedy of a relationship never publicly realized.

My angel, my all, my very self -- only a few words today and at that with your pencil -- not till tomorrow will my lodgings be definitely determined upon -- what a useless waste of time. Why this deep sorrow where necessity speaks -- can our love endure except through sacrifices -- except through not demanding everything -- can you change it that you are not wholly mine, I not wholly thine?

Oh, God! look out into the beauties of nature and comfort yourself with that which must be -- love demands everything and that very justly -- that it is with me so far as you are concerned, and you with me. If we were wholly united you would feel the pain of it as little as I!

Now a quick change to things internal from things external. We shall surely see each other; moreover, I cannot communicate to you the observations I have made during the last few days touching my own life -- if our hearts were always close together I would make none of the kind. My heart is full of many things to say to you - Ah! -- there are moments when I feel that speech is nothing after all -- cheer up -- remain my true, only treasure, my all as I am yours; the gods must send us the rest that which shall be best for us.

I have been asking myself every moment if such happiness is not a dream.
It seems to me that what I feel is not of earth. I cannot yet comprehend this cloudless heaven. My whole soul is yours.
My Adele, why is there no word for this but joy? Is it because there is no power in human speech to express such happiness?sometimes I tremble lest I should suddenly awaken from this dream divine.
Oh, now you are mine! At last you are mine! Soon -- in a few months, perhaps, my angel will sleep in my arms, will awaken in my arms, will live there.
All your thoughts at all moments, all your looks will be for me; all my thoughts, all my moments, all my looks, will be for you!
Adieu, my angel, my beloved Adele! Adieu!
Still I am far from you, but I can dream of you.
Soon perhaps you will be at my side.
Adieu; pardon the delirium of your husband who embraces you, and who adores you, both for this life and another.

You have touched me more profoundly than I thought even you could have touched me - my heart was full when you came here today. Henceforward I am yours for everything. 

The passion of love has need to be productive of much delight; as where it takes thorough possession of the man, it almost unfits him for anything else.
The lover who is certain of an equal return of affection, is surely the happiest of men; but he who is a prey to the horrors of anxiety and dreaded disappointment, is a being whose situation is by no means enviable.
Of this, my present experience gives me much proof.
To me, amusement seems impertinent, and business intrusion, while you alone engross every faculty of my mind.
May I request you to drop me a line, to inform me when I may wait upon you?
For pity's sake, do; and let me have it soon.
In the meantime allow me, in all the artless sincerity of truth, to assure you that I truly am,
my dearest Madam,
your ardent lover, and devoted humble servant

f all that I have said and done, and am still but too ready to say and do, have not sufficiently proved what my real feelings are and must be ever towards you, my love, I have no other proof to offer.
My Dearest & Most Beloved Friend
Bless you -- ever & even more than ever.
Your most attached

Is there anything on earth or heaven would have made me so happy as to have made you mine long ago? and not less now than then, but more than ever at this time -- you know I would with pleasure give up all here and all beyond the grave for you
I was and am yours, freely and most entirely, to obey, to honour, love --and fly with you when, where, and how you yourself might and may determine.

I will cover you with love when next I see you, with caresses, with ecstasy.
When you are old, I want you to recall those few hours, I want your dry bones to quiver with joy when you think of them.

I love you no longer; on the contrary, I detest you. you are a wretch, truly perverse, truly stupid, a real Cinderella. You never write to me at all, you do not love your husband; you know the pleasure that your letters give him yet you cannot even manage to write him half a dozen lines, dashed off in a moment! What then do you do all day, Madame? What business is so vital that it robs you of the time to write to your faithful lover? What attachment can be stifling and pushing aside the love, the tender and constant love which you promised him? Who can this wonderful new lover be who takes up your every moment, rules your days and prevents you from devoting your attention to your husband? 
Beware, Josephine; one fine night the doors will be broken down and there I shall be. In truth, I am worried, my love, to have no news from you; write me a four page letter instantly made up from those delightful words which fill my heart with emotion and joy. I hope to hold you in my arms before long, when I shall lavish upon you a million kisses, burning as the equatorial sun.

Dearest if you are as fond of me as I am of you...nothing human could keep us long apart.
This last week has seemed an eternity tome; Oh, I would give my soul for another of those days we had together not long ago...
My first and only love...Believe me ever to be
Yrs devotedly and lovingly,

My dearest, 
When two souls, which have sought each other for, however long in the throng, have finally found each other ...a union, fiery and pure as they themselves are... begins on earth and continues forever in heaven. 
This union is love, true love, ... a religion, which deifies the loved one, whose life comes from devotion and passion, and for which the greatest sacrifices are the sweetest delights. This is the love which you inspire in me... Your soul is made to love with the purity and passion of angels; but perhaps it can only love another angel, in which case I must tremble with apprehension.

I am looking forward to holding you once again in my loving arms. You are beautiful. You are wonderful. You are special. You are mine!!!

t's you and me, my sweetheart, just You and Me ...
I want you to know that no words can describe how deeply you touch my heart.
I tried so hard to put my thoughts on a paper, 
but words escape every time I try. I only know that I Love you truly ... 
I Love you deeply, more and more each day. 
I don't know what I would do without you. You and Me, only you and me...

Only once in your life, I truly believe, you find someone who can completely turn your world around. You tell them things that you’ve never shared with another soul and they absorb everything you say and actually want to hear more. You share hopes for the future, dreams that will never come true, goals that were never achieved and the many disappointments life has thrown at you. When something wonderful happens, you can’t wait to tell them about it, knowing they will share in your excitement. They are not embarrassed to cry with you when you are hurting or laugh with you when you make a fool of yourself. Never do they hurt your feelings or make you feel like you are not good enough, but rather they build you up and show you the things about yourself that make you special and even beautiful. There is never any pressure, jealousy or competition but only a quiet calmness when they are around. You can be yourself and not worry about what they will think of you because they love you for who you are. The things that seem insignificant to most people such as a note, song or walk become invaluable treasures kept safe in your heart to cherish forever. Memories of your childhood come back and are so clear and vivid it’s like being young again. Colours seem brighter and more brilliant. Laughter seems part of daily life where before it was infrequent or didn’t exist at all. A phone call or two during the day helps to get you through a long day’s work and always brings a smile to your face. In their presence, there’s no need for continuous conversation, but you find you’re quite content in just having them nearby. Things that never interested you before become fascinating because you know they are important to this person who is so special to you. You think of this person on every occasion and in everything you do. Simple things bring them to mind like a pale blue sky, gentle wind or even a storm cloud on the horizon. You open your heart knowing that there’s a chance it may be broken one day and in opening your heart, you experience a love and joy that you never dreamed possible. You find that being vulnerable is the only way to allow your heart to feel true pleasure that’s so real it scares you. You find strength in knowing you have a true friend and possibly a soul mate who will remain loyal to the end. Life seems completely different, exciting and worthwhile. Your only hope and security is in knowing that they are a part of your life.

I'm selfish, impatient and a little insecure. I make mistakes, I am out of control and at times hard to handle. But if you can't handle me at my worst, then you sure as hell don't deserve me at my best.

You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listening,
And live like it's heaven on earth.

You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.

You may not be her first, her last, or her only. She loved before she may love again. But if she loves you now, what else matters? She's not perfect—you aren't either, and the two of you may never be perfect together but if she can make you laugh, cause you to think twice, and admit to being human and making mistakes, hold onto her and give her the most you can. She may not be thinking about you every second of the day, but she will give you a part of her that she knows you can break—her heart. So don't hurt her, don't change her, don't analyze and don't expect more than she can give. Smile when she makes you happy, let her know when she makes you mad, and miss her when she's not there.

People think a soul mate is your perfect fit, and that's what everyone wants. But a true soul mate is a mirror, the person who shows you everything that is holding you back, the person who brings you to your own attention so you can change your life. 

A true soul mate is probably the most important person you'll ever meet, because they tear down your walls and smack you awake. But to live with a soul mate forever? Nah. Too painful. Soul mates, they come into your life just to reveal another layer of yourself to you, and then leave. 

A soul mates purpose is to shake you up, tear apart your ego a little bit, show you your obstacles and addictions, break your heart open so new light can get in, make you so desperate and out of control that you have to transform your life, then introduce you to your spiritual master...

To love at all is to be vulnerable. Love anything and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact you must give it to no one, not even an animal. Wrap it carefully round with hobbies and little luxuries; avoid all entanglements. Lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket, safe, dark, motionless, airless, it will change. It will not be broken; it will become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeemable. To love is to be vulnerable.”

I've been making a list of the things they don't teach you at school. They don't teach you how to love somebody. They don't teach you how to be famous. They don't teach you how to be rich or how to be poor. They don't teach you how to walk away from someone you don't love any longer. They don't teach you how to know what's going on in someone else's mind. They don't teach you what to say to someone who's dying. They don't teach you anything worth knowing.

He’s not perfect. You aren’t either, and the two of you will never be perfect. But if he can make you laugh at least once, causes you to think twice, and if he admits to being human and making mistakes, hold onto him and give him the most you can. He isn’t going to quote poetry, he’s not thinking about you every moment, but he will give you a part of him that he knows you could break. Don’t hurt him, don’t change him, and don’t expect for more than he can give. Don’t analyze. Smile when he makes you happy, yell when he makes you mad, and miss him when he’s not there. Love hard when there is love to be had. Because perfect guys don’t exist, but there’s always one guy that is perfect for you.

I carry your heart with me (I carry it in my heart)I am never without it (anywhere
I go you go, my dear; and whatever is done by only me is your doing, my darling)
I fear no fate (for you are my fate, my sweet)I want no world (for beautiful you are my world, my true)
and it's you are whatever a moon has always meant and whatever a sun will always sing is you

here is the deepest secret nobody knows
(here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud and the sky of the sky of a tree called life; which grows
higher than the soul can hope or mind can hide)
and this is the wonder that's keeping the stars apart

I carry your heart (I carry it in my heart)

And now I’m looking at you,” he said, “and you’re asking me if I still want you, as if I could stop loving you. As if I would want to give up the thing that makes me stronger than anything else ever has. I never dared give much of myself to anyone before – bits of myself to the Lightwoods, to Isabelle and Alec, but it took years to do it – but, Clary, since the first time I saw you, I have belonged to you completely. I still do. If you want me.




Life will break you. Nobody can protect you from that, and living alone won't either, for solitude will also break you with its yearning. You have to love. You have to feel. It is the reason you are here on earth. You are here to risk your heart. You are here to be swallowed up. And when it happens that you are broken, or betrayed, or left, or hurt, or death brushes near, let yourself sit by an apple tree and listen to the apples falling all around you in heaps, wasting their sweetness. Tell yourself you tasted as many as you could.

There are two basic motivating forces: fear and love. When we are afraid, we pull back from life. When we are in love, we open to all that life has to offer with passion, excitement, and acceptance. We need to learn to love ourselves first, in all our glory and our imperfections. If we cannot love ourselves, we cannot fully open to our ability to love others or our potential to create. Evolution and all hopes for a better world rest in the fearlessness and open-hearted vision of people who embrace life.

We live and breathe words. .... It was books that made me feel that perhaps I was not completely alone. They could be honest with me, and I with them. Reading your words, what you wrote, how you were lonely sometimes and afraid, but always brave; the way you saw the world, its colors and textures and sounds, I felt--I felt the way you thought, hoped, felt, dreamt. I felt I was dreaming and thinking and feeling with you. I dreamed what you dreamed, wanted what you wanted--and then I realized that truly I just wanted you.

Everyone, at some point in their lives, wakes up in the middle of the night with the feeling that they are all alone in the world, and that nobody loves them now and that nobody will ever love them, and that they will never have a decent night's sleep again and will spend their lives wandering blearily around a loveless landscape, hoping desperately that their circumstances will improve, but suspecting, in their heart of hearts, that they will remain unloved forever. The best thing to do in these circumstances is to wake somebody else up, so that they can feel this way, too.


I love you for what you are, but I love you yet more for what you are going to be.
I love you not so much for your realities as for your ideals. I pray for your desires that they may be great, rather than for your satisfactions, which may be so hazardously little.
A satisfied flower is one whose petals are about to fall. The most beautiful rose is one hardly more than a bud wherein the pangs and ecstasies of desire are working for a larger and finer growth. Not always shall you be what you are now. You are going forward toward something great. I am on the way with you and therefore I love you.

You are a ukulele beyond my microphone
You are a Yukon beyond my Micronesia
You are a union beyond my meiosis
You are a unicycle beyond my migration
You are a universe beyond my mitochondria
You are a Eucharist beyond my Miles Davis
You are a euphony beyond my myocardiogram
You are a unicorn beyond my Minotaur
You are a eureka beyond my maitai
You are a Yuletide beyond my minesweeper
You are a euphemism beyond my myna bird


The milkman; which remembers to plant bulbs;
Which answers letters; which knows the way
The money goes; which deals with dentists

And Road Fund Tax and meeting trains,
And postcards to the lonely; which upholds

The permanently rickety elaborate
Structures of living, which is Atlas.

And maintenance is the sensible side of love,
Which knows what time and weather are doing
To my brickwork; insulates my faulty wiring;
Laughs at my dryrotten jokes; remembers
My need for gloss and grouting; which keeps
My suspect edifice upright in air,
As Atlas did the sky.

When you come to me, unbidden,
Beckoning me
To long-ago rooms,
Where memories lie.

Offering me, as to a child, an attic,
Gatherings of days too few.
Baubles of stolen kisses.
Trinkets of borrowed loves.
Trunks of secret words,

I CRY.

When, in disgrace with fortune and men’s eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And look upon myself and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man’s art and that man’s scope
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven’s gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.

Sometimes she is like sherry, like the sun through a vessel of glass,
Like light through an oriel window in a room of yellow wood;
Sometimes she is the colour of lions, of sand in the fire of noon,
Sometimes as bruised with shadows as the afternoon.

Sometimes she moves like rivers, sometimes like trees;
Or tranced and fixed like South Pole silences;
Sometimes she is beauty, sometimes fury, sometimes neither,
Sometimes nothing, drained of meaning, null as water.

Sometimes, when she makes me pea-soup or plays me Schumann,
I love her one way; sometimes I love her another
More disturbing way when she opens her mouth in the dark;
Sometimes I like her with camellias, sometimes with a parsley-stalk,
Sometimes I like her swimming in a mirror on the wall;
Sometimes I don’t like her at all.

When we are old and these rejoicing veins
Are frosty channels to a muted stream,
And out of all our burning their remains
No feeblest spark to fire us, even in dream,
This be our solace: that it was not said
When we were young and warm and in our prime,
Upon our couch we lay as lie the dead,
Sleeping away the unreturning time.
O sweet, O heavy-lidded, O my love,
When morning strikes her spear upon the land,
And we must rise and arm us and reprove
The insolent daylight with a steady hand,
Be not discountenanced if the knowing know
We rose from rapture but an hour ago.

She is neither pink nor pale,
And she never will be all mine;
She learned her hands in a fairy-tale,
And her mouth on a valentine.

She has more hair than she needs;
In the sun ’tis a woe to me!
And her voice is a string of coloured beads,
Or steps leading into the sea.

She loves me all that she can,
And her ways to my ways resign;
But she was not made for any man,
And she never will be all mine.

When, in disgrace with fortune and men’s eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And look upon myself and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man’s art and that man’s scope
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven’s gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.

What sound was that?

I turn away, into the shaking room.

What was that sound that came in on the dark?
What is this maze of light it leaves us in?
What is this stance we take,
To turn away and then turn back?
What did we hear?

It was the breath we took when we first met.

Listen. It is here.


I think I was searching for treasures or stones
in the clearest of pools
when your face…

when your face,
like the moon in a well
where I might wish…

might well wish
for the iced fire of your kiss;
only on water my lips, where your face…

where your face was reflected, lovely,
not really there when I turned
to look behind at the emptying air…

the emptying air.

It’s all I have to bring today—
This, and my heart beside—
This, and my heart, and all the fields—
And all the meadows wide—
Be sure you count—should I forget
Some one the sum could tell—
This, and my heart, and all the Bees
Which in the Clover dwell.

I came to you one rainless August night.
You taught me how to live without the rain.
You are thirst and thirst is all I know.
You are sand, wind, sun, and burning sky,
The hottest blue. You blow a breeze and brand
Your breath into my mouth. You reach—then bend
Your force, to break, blow, burn, and make me new.
You wrap your name tight around my ribs
And keep me warm. I was born for you.
Above, below, by you, by you surrounded.
I wake to you at dawn. Never break your
Knot. Reach, rise, blow, Sálvame, mi dios,
Trágame, mi tierra. Salva, traga, Break me,
I am bread. I will be the water for your thirst.


Promise Yourself

To be so strong that nothing
can disturb your peace of mind.
To talk health, happiness, and prosperity
to every person you meet.

To make all your friends feel
that there is something in them
To look at the sunny side of everything
and make your optimism come true.

To think only the best, to work only for the best,
and to expect only the best.
To be just as enthusiastic about the success of others
as you are about your own.

To forget the mistakes of the past
and press on to the greater achievements of the future.
To wear a cheerful countenance at all times
and give every living creature you meet a smile.

To give so much time to the improvement of yourself
that you have no time to criticize others.
To be too large for worry, too noble for anger, too strong for fear,
and too happy to permit the presence of trouble.

To think well of yourself and to proclaim this fact to the world,
not in loud words but great deeds.
To live in faith that the whole world is on your side
so long as you are true to the best that is in you.

A glimpse through an interstice caught,
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremark’d seated in a corner,
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand,
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest,
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word.

I wanted to make myself like the ravine
so that all good things
would flow into me.

Because the ravine is lowly,
it receives an abundance.

This sounds wonderful
to everyone
who suffers from lacking,
but consider, too, that a ravine
keeps nothing out:

in flows a peach
with only one bite taken out of it,
but in flows, too,
the body of a stiff mouse
half cooked by the heat of the stove
it was toughening under.

I have an easygoing way about me.
I’ve been an inviting host —
meaning to, not meaning to.
Oops — he’s approaching with his tongue
already out
and moving.

Analyze the risks
of becoming a ravine.

Compare those with the risks
of becoming a well
with a well-bolted lid.

Which I’d prefer
depends largely on which kinds
of animals were inside me
when the lid went on
and how likely they’d be
to enjoy the water,
vs. drown, freeze, or starve.

The lesson: close yourself off
at exactly the right time.

On the day that you wake up
under some yellow curtains
with a smile on your face,

lock the door.
Live out your days
untroubled like that.

Her body is not so white as
anemone petals nor so smooth—nor
so remote a thing. It is a field
of the wild carrot taking
the field by force; the grass
does not raise above it.
Here is no question of whiteness,
white as can be, with a purple mole
at the center of each flower.
Each flower is a hand’s span
of her whiteness. Wherever
his hand has lain there is
a tiny purple blossom under his touch
to which the fibres of her being
stem one by one, each to its end,
until the whole field is a
white desire, empty, a single stem,
a cluster, flower by flower,
a pious wish to whiteness gone over—
or nothing.
I love you as a sheriff searches for a walnut
That will solve a murder case unsolved for years
Because the murderer left it in the snow beside a window
Through which he saw her head, connecting with
Her shoulders by a neck, and laid a red
Roof in her heart. For this we live a thousand years;
For this we love, and we live because we love, we are not
Inside a bottle, thank goodness! I love you as a
Kid searches for a goat; I am crazier than shirttails
In the wind, when you’re near, a wind that blows from
The big blue sea, so shiny so deep and so unlike us;
I think I am bicycling across an Africa of green and white fields
Always, to be near you, even in my heart
When I’m awake, which swims, and also I believe that you
Are trustworthy as the sidewalk which leads me to
The place where I again think of you, a new
Harmony of thoughts! I love you as the sunlight leads the prow
Of a ship which sails
From Hartford to Miami, and I love you
Best at dawn, when even before I am awake the sun
Receives me in the questions which you always pose.

Sometimes she is like sherry, like the sun through a vessel of glass,
Like light through an oriel window in a room of yellow wood;
Sometimes she is the colour of lions, of sand in the fire of noon,
Sometimes as bruised with shadows as the afternoon.

Sometimes she moves like rivers, sometimes like trees;
Or tranced and fixed like South Pole silences;
Sometimes she is beauty, sometimes fury, sometimes neither,
Sometimes nothing, drained of meaning, null as water.

Sometimes, when she makes me pea-soup or plays me Schumann,
I love her one way; sometimes I love her another
More disturbing way when she opens her mouth in the dark;
Sometimes I like her with camellias, sometimes with a parsley-stalk,
Sometimes I like her swimming in a mirror on the wall;
Sometimes I don’t like her at all.

When we are old and these rejoicing veins
Are frosty channels to a muted stream,
And out of all our burning their remains
No feeblest spark to fire us, even in dream,
This be our solace: that it was not said
When we were young and warm and in our prime,
Upon our couch we lay as lie the dead,
Sleeping away the unreturning time.
O sweet, O heavy-lidded, O my love,
When morning strikes her spear upon the land,
And we must rise and arm us and reprove
The insolent daylight with a steady hand,
Be not discountenanced if the knowing know
We rose from rapture but an hour ago.

She is neither pink nor pale,
And she never will be all mine;
She learned her hands in a fairy-tale,
And her mouth on a valentine.

She has more hair than she needs;
In the sun ’tis a woe to me!
And her voice is a string of coloured beads,
Or steps leading into the sea.

She loves me all that she can,
And her ways to my ways resign;
But she was not made for any man,
And she never will be all mine.

Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;
Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen.Only your word will heal the injury
To my hurt heart, while yet the wound is clean—
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene.Upon my word, I tell you faithfully
Through life and after death you are my queen;
For with my death the whole truth shall be seen.
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;
Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen.

To an army wife, in Sardis:

Some say a cavalry corps,
some infantry, some, again,
will maintain that the swift oars
of our fleet are the finest
sight on dark earth; but I say
that whatever one loves, is.
This is easily proved: did
not Helen—she who had scanned
the flower of the world’s manhood—
choose as first among men one
who laid Troy’s honor in ruin?
warped to his will, forgetting
love due her own blood, her own
child, she wandered far with him.
So Anactoria, although you
being far away forget us,
the dear sound of your footstep
and light glancing in your eyes
would move me more than glitter
of Lydian horse or armored
tread of mainland infantry

Love
Is a ripe plum
Growing on a purple tree.
Taste it once
And the spell of its enchantment
Will never let you be.

Love
Is a bright star
Glowing in far Southern skies.
Look too hard
And its burning flame
Will always hurt your eyes.

Love
Is a high mountain
Stark in a windy sky.
If you
Would never lose your breath
Do not climb too high.


How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.
I love thee to the depth and breadth and height
My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight
For the ends of being and ideal grace.
I love thee to the level of every day’s
Most quiet need, by sun and candle-light.
I love thee freely, as men strive for right;
I love thee purely, as they turn from praise.
I love thee with the passion put to use
In my old griefs, and with my childhood’s faith.
I love thee with a love I seemed to lose
With my lost saints. I love thee with the breath,
Smiles, tears, of all my life; and, if God choose,
I shall but love thee better after death.

Do you remember still the falling stars
that like swift horses through the heavens raced
and suddenly leaped across the hurdles
of our wishes—do you recall? And we
did make so many! For there were countless numbers
of stars: each time we looked above we were
astounded by the swiftness of their daring play,
while in our hearts we felt safe and secure
watching these brilliant bodies disintegrate,
knowing somehow we had survived their fall.

Speak earth and bless me with what is richest
make sky flow honey out of my hips
rigis mountains
spread over a valley
carved out by the mouth of rain.

And I knew when I entered her I was
high wind in her forests hollow
fingers whispering sound
honey flowed
from the split cup
impaled on a lance of tongues
on the tips of her breasts on her navel
and my breath
howling into her entrances
through lungs of pain.

Greedy as herring-gulls
or a child
I swing out over the earth
over and over
again.


The sky was lit
by the splendor of the moon

So powerful
I fell to the ground

Your love
has made me sure

I am ready to forsake
this worldly life
and surrender
to the magnificence
of your Being

Marriage is not
a house, or even a tent

it is before that, and colder:

the edge of the forest, the edge
of the desert
the unpainted stairs
at the back, where we squat
outdoors, eating popcorn

where painfully and with wonder

at having survived
this far

we are learning to make fire

My desire
is always the same; wherever Life
deposits me:
I want to stick my toe
& soon my whole body
into the water.
I want to shake out a fat broom
& sweep dried leaves
bruised blossoms
dead insects
& dust.
I want to grow
something.
It seems impossible that desire
can sometimes transform into devotion;
but this has happened.
And that is how I’ve survived:
how the hole
I carefully tended
in the garden of my heart
grew a heart
to fill it.

I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead;
I lift my lids and all is born again.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

The stars go waltzing out in blue and red,
And arbitrary blackness gallops in:
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.

I dreamed that you bewitched me into bed
And sung me moon-struck, kissed me quite insane.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

God topples from the sky, hell’s fires fade:
Exit seraphim and Satan’s men:
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.

I fancied you’d return the way you said,
But I grow old and I forget your name.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

I should have loved a thunderbird instead;
At least when spring comes they roar back again.
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)

love is a place
& through this place of
love move
(with brightness of peace)
all places

yes is a world
& in this world of
yes live
(skillfully curled)
all worlds


When I cannot look at your face
I look at your feet.
Your feet of arched bone,
your hard little feet.
I know that they support you,
and that your sweet weight
rises upon them.
Your waist and your breasts,
the doubled purple
of your nipples,
the sockets of your eyes
that have just flown away,
your wide fruit mouth,
your red tresses,
my little tower.
But I love your feet
only because they walked
upon the earth and upon
the wind and upon the waters,
until they found me.

You and I
Have so much love,
That it
Burns like a fire,
In which we bake a lump of clay
Molded into a figure of you
And a figure of me.
Then we take both of them,
And break them into pieces,
And mix the pieces with water,
And mold again a figure of you,
And a figure of me.
I am in your clay.
You are in my clay.
In life we share a single quilt.
In death we will share one bed.

Love is a fire that burns unseen,
a wound that aches yet isn’t felt,
an always discontent contentment,
a pain that rages without hurting,

a longing for nothing but to long,
a loneliness in the midst of people,
a never feeling pleased when pleased,
a passion that gains when lost in thought.

It’s being enslaved of your own free will;
it’s counting your defeat a victory;
it’s staying loyal to your killer.

But if it’s so self-contradictory,
how can Love, when Love chooses,
bring human hearts into sympathy?

Never give all the heart, for love
Will hardly seem worth thinking of
To passionate women if it seem
Certain, and they never dream
That it fades out from kiss to kiss;
For everything that’s lovely is
But a brief, dreamy, kind delight.
O never give the heart outright,
For they, for all smooth lips can say,
Have given their hearts up to the play.
And who could play it well enough
If deaf and dumb and blind with love?
He that made this knows all the cost,
For he gave all his heart and lost.

Outside the sky is light with stars;
There’s a hollow roaring from the sea.
And, alas! for the little almond flowers,
The wind is shaking the almond tree.

How little I thought, a year ago,
In the horrible cottage upon the Lee
That he and I should be sitting so
And sipping a cup of camomile tea.

Light as feathers the witches fly,
The horn of the moon is plain to see;
By a firefly under a jonquil flower
A goblin toasts a bumble-bee.

We might be fifty, we might be five,
So snug, so compact, so wise are we!
Under the kitchen-table leg
My knee is pressing against his knee.

Our shutters are shut, the fire is low,
The tap is dripping peacefully;
The saucepan shadows on the wall
Are black and round and plain to see.



We swan-dive into the volcano, burning;
We’re creatures of the fire,
Mingled male and female, yearning
For the heat, the sweet explosion of desire.

I splash into the pleasure, all consuming;
I’m joyfully insane,
My passion for you deep, and fully blooming;
Long after, sweet warm flickers still remain.

You make my body sizzle with your kisses,
And yet there’s so much more;
My heart is kindled, too; It knows what bliss is,
This closeness that I’ve never felt before.

My body and my heart belong to you;
I’m peaceful and complete.
I see more adventures coming for we two,
We creatures of the tender fire and heat.

Bonded to you in emotional bliss,
united in physical rapture,
I realize my dreams and fantasies.
Engulfed in contentment
and satisfaction,
I know heaven in your arms.
My intense hunger nourished,
deep yearnings fulfilled,
I am open to you in total trust.
You are my refuge,
my everything

If not for you, I wouldn’t know
What true love really meant.
I’d never feel this inner peace;
I couldn’t be content.

If not for you, I’d never have
The pleasures of romance.
I’d miss the bliss, the craziness,
Of love’s sweet, silly dance.

I have to feel your tender touch;
I have to hear your voice;
No other one could take your place;
You’re it; I have no choice.

If not for you, I’d be adrift;
I don’t know what I’d do;
I’d be searching for my other half,
Incomplete, if not for you.


I’ve held others before,
But it was never like this,
Where my body inhales you
And quivers with bliss,

Where my senses are reeling
From the strength of desire,
And if I can’t have you soon,
I’ll be consumed by the fire.

Before I met you,
I thought I was happy,
and I was,
but I had never known
the rich contentment,
deep satisfaction,
and total fulfillment
you brought to me
when you came into my life.
Before I met you,
I felt a lot of things,
good things,
but I had never experienced
the indescribably intense
feelings I have for you.
Before I met you,
I thought I knew myself,
and I did,
but you looked deep inside me
and found fresh new things
for us to share.
Before I met you,
I thought I knew about love,
but I didn’t,
until I met you.

Let me sing you a love song
About what I feel in my heart;
Butterflies can't find nectar
Whenever we're apart.

You're a flower in bloom.
In the dark, in the gloom,
It's you who brightens my day.
How many ways do I need you?
Every day, every way, come what may.

Our love is the long lasting kind;
We’ve been together quite awhile.
I love you for so many things,
Your voice, your touch, your kiss, your smile.

You accept me as I am;
I can relax and just be me.
Even when my quirks come out,
You think they’re cute; you let me be.

With you, there’s nothing to resist;
You’re irresistible to me.
I’m drawn to you in total trust;
I give myself to you willingly.

Your sweet devotion never fails;
You view me with a patient heart.
You love me, dear, no matter what.
You’ve been that way right from the start.

Those are just a few reasons why
I’ll always love you like I do.
We’ll have a lifetime full of love,
And it will happen because of you.


You're one in a million, my most special one;
Your radiant smile is as bright as the sun;
You're smart and caring and have many great charms,
And my heart really sings when you're wrapped in my arms.

I'm happy you chose me from all of the rest,
And I'm proud 'cause I know that I got the best.
You're so cute and sweet, and you glow like a pearl;
I just love you so much, my most wonderful girl!


When you’re away from me
I long for you...
in my thoughts,
in the center of my soul.
I yearn to see
the affection in your eyes...
blue depths of love for me.
I crave the safe warmth
of your arms around me...
my cave of comfort, ease and peace.
My body aches with hunger for you...
the exquisite torture
of delayed ecstasy,
coming soon, coming soon.
I long for you, I yearn for you,
I ache for you...
Please, bring all that I crave
in your incomparable self.
Come to me. Come to me.

How did this miracle happen
That we're so very blessed,
So close…and more contented,
Than I ever would have guessed.

I never thought that I
Could spend each precious minute
With just one special person
And find happiness within it.

I've learned so much from you
About loving, sharing, giving;
I know if I hadn't met you,
I wouldn't be really living.

We're facing life together;
We're handling joy and sorrow;
I'm glad you're on my side,
Whatever comes tomorrow.

You're my perfect partner,
Sweet lover, trusted friend.
We're safe within our love,
A love that will never end.


I love you for the warm, sweet affection
in your eyes
whenever you look at me,
and the special smile
you save only for me.
I love that you always seek
to have your body close to mine,
reaching out to touch,
to hold my hand,
to wrap your arms around me.
I love how you show me you care
by looking for ways
to make my life easier and more comfortable.
I love that when I ask you to do things,
you try to do them
instead of thinking me demanding.
I love that your favorite place is near me,
that you’d rather be with me
than anywhere else.
I love you for more reasons
than this page has space to write,
so I’ll try to tell you and show you in person
all the things I love about you.

No matter what I look like,
Whether pretty or plain you see,
When I’m all dressed up or in PJs,
You just keep on loving me.

Sometimes I’m happy and cheerful;
Other times grumpy and sad;
Your absolute love never wavers,
Whether I’m grouchy or glad.

Sometimes I try to change you;
And sometimes I criticize;
But I feel something melting within me,
When I see all the love in your eyes.

Your tolerance is endless,
However I choose to be;
Having my love makes you happy,
So you just keep on loving me.

And that is why, my darling,
Whatever else I do,
One thing is sure; no matter what,
I’ll just keep on loving you.

I had many loves before I met you,
interesting loves,
companionable, fun-loving,
comfortable loves,
but only one real love, unique love...
like you.
No one made my heart pound,
my skin damp, everything juicy
through and through...
like you.
None left me breathless,
panting with excitement,
satisfaction, and finally peace,
like you.
Before you, there were others,
but none captured
my mind, heart and soul forever...
like you.

No one loves me like you do;
I’ve never felt like this;
You please me in so many ways,
With a word, a caress, a kiss.

No one understands me like you do;
You see me deep inside,
You choose to overlook my flaws,
The ones I try to hide.

No one satisfies me like you do,
When our bodies intertwine;
You give so much with your tender touch,
You’re amazing, and you’re mine!

No one loves me like you do;
You fill my every need,
And that is why, my darling,
I’ll follow wherever you lead.

I always yearn to come to you,
be with you,
connect with you,
unite with you,
merge with you.
I always love to nurture you,
nourish you,
meet your needs,
feed your hungers.
I will always cherish you,
treasure you,
adore you.
I aways want to be yours,
always.

When I think of you, you fill my mind;
There’s no more thinking room I find.
I’ve never had such thoughts before;
I’m lost in you, whom I adore.

I think no more of mundane things,
Like common pleasures that living brings.
I just think of you, and I’m filled with dreams;
To keep your love fills all my schemes.

How could anyone ever know,
The sweet dreams that I dreamt as a youth,
Could blossom and focus and grow,
Until now they’d turn up as a truth.

A truth filled with blessing and wonder,
A truth filled with love and with caring,
A truth with a voice loud as thunder,
A truth with a message worth sharing.

For you, my love, filled all my dreams,
Of a life I thought never could be.
Now with you at my side, I’m contented;
For my dreaming came true, don’t you see?

I never gave up on my dreaming,
I persisted because I just knew,
A wait for real love is worth waiting,
Now you’re here, and my dreams have come true.

Sometimes a man’s mind and tongue
seem disconnected.
My mind realizes your wonderfulness,
but my tongue might fail to tell you.
Maybe, since my eyes and brain
see how very obvious
your lovely, endearing qualities are,
my tongue thinks
I don’t need to let you know.
In case there is any doubt
about what I am thinking and feeling,
I am writing it down for you:
I always think
you are the prettiest, smartest,
most wonderful, kindest,
most loveable girl
in all the world.
I want to hug, kiss, love
and adore you forever.
Please try to have patience
with the negligence of my tongue.
I am working to keep it in the loop better.


My thoughts of you are like raindrops on flowers...
Beautiful.
My thoughts of you are like a rainbow at a splashing waterfall...
Beautiful.
My thoughts of you are like a full moon
shining through a cloudy night sky...
Beautiful.
No matter what wonders my eyes have seen,
Nothing compares to the beauty I see
when I look at you.
My love for you is beautiful.

We all are explorers on the great sea of life;
We search and we hunt for our pleasure.
Some adventures are fruitful, and some disappoint,
But few find a gem they can treasure.

I’m so blessed I found you as my priceless prize;
You’re a treasure in every way.
I searched with the rest and discovered the best;
Finding you was my luckiest day.

What is it about you that makes me feel weak,
And gives me the goose bumps whenever you speak?
Why does the sight of you fill me with pleasure,
Like a spotlight that shines on a glorious treasure?

Are you so different from others I’ve known?
What qualities do you have that are yours alone?
What can it be that fills up my heart?
And makes me feel lost whenever we part?

There’s no easy answer for this marvelous bliss,
For the wonder I feel whenever we kiss,
For the fire that rages at the touch of your skin,
For the way my heart pounds for you way deep within.

It must be the power of love that I feel,
That ties me in bonds that seem strong as steel.
I could fight to get loose, but I’d rather give in;
To stay trapped by your charms is how I will win.

While others tell me I have faults and flaws,
And pick me all apart and criticize,
You love me, sweetheart, just the way I am;
I only see affection in your eyes.

My pesky quirks you only find endearing;
Your perfect mate is what you choose to see;
I love you for a multitude of reasons;
And most of all 'cause you let me be me.

I never have to change to meet your standards;
Acceptance is the greatest gift you give;
I appreciate you for your sweet devotion,
And I’ll love you for as long as we shall live.

Pirates bold in days of old
Searched the world for treasure rare,
But none they found as bright and sound,
As my girl with the reddish hair.

Precious gold and sparkling jewels
Were fortunes to make men care,
But none were worth a penny
Next to my girl with the reddish hair.

These pirates fought and died for wealth;
Their lives I wouldn’t share,
For I have the only wealth I need:
My girl with the reddish hair.

I was self sufficient,
gratified by my independence,
alone, but not lonely,
I thought.
But I was restless,
searching blindly for something
to fill an empty place
I didn't even know I had,
dimly aware
that I was somehow unfinished.
Then you came,
and filled everything,
every space, every need,
even secret dreams
I had concealed from myself.
I was self sufficient,
and restless;
Now I am profoundly peaceful
and complete,
because of you.

There's a story told of a wizard
Who, for money, would cast a spell,
And I'm sure that you met this wizard,
And you, his wares he did sell.

What else can explain how your smile
Can make my heartbeat roar,
Or how your look slows my breathing,
While causing my spirits to soar.

I'm sure that you and this wizard
Conspired to control my brain,
For I'm always thinking about you--
Feeling happy and slightly insane.

Now I hope I meet that same wizard,
For I'd give him all of my gold,
To make you want to stay with me,
And share happiness as we grow old.

I've had a dream, since I was young
Of just how life should be,
But through the years, try as I might,
That dream eluded me.

I dreamed of a life that was filled with bliss;
I dreamed of love and sharing.
I dreamed, imagined and creatively planned
An adventure for two who were caring.

The road to today was paved with the dreams
That slowly got ground to dust.
And I've trudged that road and carried my load
And tried very hard to adjust.

Each step made me stronger; each test made me wiser,
So on my long walk, I grew,
Till the time was right, one magical night,
For the road to make room for two.

Now my brain shouts your name, and your loving reply
Makes a place for you in my heart.
(Name), it cries--so tender, so wise--
Let's make the adventure start!

Together we're blessed with a perfect match,
Something that's bright and new.
It's not too late, so let's create
A life that makes dreams come true.

My thoughts of you come frequently;
They’re always filled with you and me.
No matter what I see or when,
It brings you back to mind again.

I’d be sitting, reading a book,
Or be out walking by a brook;
No matter what the path I took,
I’d see dream images of how you look.

Each day is filled with dreams of you;
I hope that all these dreams come true.

When love strikes us hard and makes mush of our brain,
When love sneaks in and makes us insane,
All sense can depart and leave the brain blank,
When love like that strikes it can drain our whole tank.

So beware of the power you exert over me,
For I’m under your spell; that’s clear as can be.
Whenever you’re near, my brain slips out of joint;
I fight my love, but what is the point?

You’re my strength and my weakness, for I love you so dearly,
And I hope our love shines through the years just as clearly.

You're the love of my life, my sweet, wonderful wife,
And that's what you'll always be.
I can hardly believe the good fortune I've had
Through the years since you married me.

Each year spent with you is a blessing; it's true!
Each year brings contentment so rare;
Each year binds us stronger and deeper in love,
and my wish is for more years to share!

My partner for life is you, my sweet wife;
I feel the bright joy you provide.
You fill life with pleasure;
You're my very own treasure;
Without you, I'd be empty inside.

Let's cherish the good times, learn from the bad,
Make the most of the life we share
If things get you down, don't worry; don't frown.
Always remember, I care!

I see you at school
And you glance my way,
Passing in the halls
In your ordinary day.

But anytime
Your eyes meet mine
Is a day so rare,
A day so fine.

Just another face,
I’m nothing to you;
You look but don’t see;
You haven’t a clue...

That my heart is racing;
I’m trembling inside;
So much love for you
I’m trying to hide.

You smile at others;
You pass me by;
I’m invisible,
And I want to cry.

You say that you like me,
But that we're just friends;
Can I feel the same?
Well I think it depends:

Can I quit breathing fast
Each time you appear?
Will my heart stop its pounding
Whenever you're near?

I'd like to feel nothing,
And get rid of the thrill.
I wish I'd stop loving you,
But I don't think I will.

I pray the Lord will bless you, Love,
With all that’s good from heaven above.
Lord, please keep him well, secure;
Create in us a love that’s pure,
Unselfish, giving, fond and true,
Fixed on loving and serving You.

When love first comes and all seems right;
It’s beyond our reason that we two can fight.
Yet fights will come, and anger might thrive,
So let’s try to be sure that our love will survive.

Let’s make our plans with similar goals,
So our wants and desires won’t hit hidden shoals
That set us crashing when things get hard,
So our love can stay strong even when it gets jarred.

For if love can stay strong when it’s tested by fire,
Then we'd share a future that most would admire,
A future where partners would strive side by side,
A future where love would always abide.

For many years we’ve lived and loved,
Our lives a rich delight.
Then one day’s events caused us to clash,
And the friction led to a fight.

You think that words can’t do a lot,
But words are not inert.
Words have the power to sooth and calm,
But can also cut and hurt.

If thoughts are kept within your head,
They can be dealt with by you alone.
But once the words are past your lips,
They’re like a monument carved in stone.

So always take the time to think,
Of the hurt that can take place,
Whenever a thought is hastily said,
To cause someone loss of face.

It’s hard work to tear the monument down,
To make the hurtful words lose their power.
It’s so much better not to speak the thought,
And just complain to yourself for an hour.

She walks in beauty, like the night 
Of cloudless climes and starry skies; 
And all that’s best of dark and bright 
Meet in her aspect and her eyes; 
Thus mellowed to that tender light 
Which heaven to gaudy day denies. 

One shade the more, one ray the less, 
Had half impaired the nameless grace 
Which waves in every raven tress, 
Or softly lightens o’er her face; 
Where thoughts serenely sweet express, 
How pure, how dear their dwelling-place. 

And on that cheek, and o’er that brow, 
So soft, so calm, yet eloquent, 
The smiles that win, the tints that glow, 
But tell of days in goodness spent, 
A mind at peace with all below, 
A heart whose love is innocent!

O my Luve is like a red, red rose 
   That’s newly sprung in June; 
O my Luve is like the melody 
   That’s sweetly played in tune. 

So fair art thou, my bonnie lass, 
   So deep in luve am I; 
And I will luve thee still, my dear, 
   Till a’ the seas gang dry. 

Till a’ the seas gang dry, my dear, 
   And the rocks melt wi’ the sun; 
I will love thee still, my dear, 
   While the sands o’ life shall run. 

And fare thee weel, my only luve! 
   And fare thee weel awhile! 
And I will come again, my luve, 
   Though it were ten thousand mile.

Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art— 
         Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night 
And watching, with eternal lids apart, 
         Like nature's patient, sleepless Eremite, 
The moving waters at their priestlike task 
         Of pure ablution round earth's human shores, 
Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask 
         Of snow upon the mountains and the moors— 
No—yet still stedfast, still unchangeable, 
         Pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast, 
To feel for ever its soft fall and swell, 
         Awake for ever in a sweet unrest, 
Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath, 
And so live ever—or else swoon to death.

You are the sun that shines brightly throughout my day.
You are the gravity that holds me down in every way.
You are the moon that shimmers throughout my night.
You are stars that glimmer oh so bright.

You are the oxygen that keeps me alive.
You are my heart that beats inside.
You are the blood that flows through me.
You are the only guy I can see.
You have the voice of when a mockingbird sings.
You are my everything.

You are my one and only.
You stop me from being so lonely.
We plan our future as if we have a clue.
I never want to lose you.
I want you to be my husband, and I want to be your wife.
I want to be with you for the rest of my life.

You are the sun that shines brightly throughout my day.
You are the gravity that holds me down in every way.
You are the moon that shimmers throughout my night.
You are stars that glimmer oh so bright.

You are the oxygen that keeps me alive.
You are my heart that beats inside.
You are the blood that flows through me.
You are the only guy I can see.
You have the voice of when a mockingbird sings.
You are my everything.

You are my one and only.
You stop me from being so lonely.
We plan our future as if we have a clue.
I never want to lose you.
I want you to be my husband, and I want to be your wife.
I want to be with you for the rest of my life.

A glimpse through an interstice caught, 
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremarkd seated in a corner, 
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand, 
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest, 
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word. 


simplicity   
say sleep

or
shall we   
shower

have an apple

you are   
as I need   
water

shall I move?   
do you dream?   
shallow snow

flesh   

melt this

Of many reasons I love you here is one

the way you write me from the gate at the airport
so I can tell you everything will be alright

so you can tell me there is a bird
trapped in the terminal      all the people
ignoring it       because they do not know
what to do with it       except to leave it alone
until it scares itself to death

it makes you terribly terribly sad

You wish you could take the bird outside
and set it free or       (failing that)
call a bird-understander
to come help the bird

All you can do is notice the bird
and feel for the bird       and write
to tell me how language feels
impossibly useless

but you are wrong

You are a bird-understander
better than I could ever be
who make so many noises
and call them song

These are your own words
your way of noticing
and saying plainly
of not turning away
from hurt

you have offered them
to me       I am only
giving them back

if only I could show you
how very useless
they are not


If ever two were one, then surely we.
If ever man were loved by wife, then thee.
If ever wife was happy in a man,
Compare with me, ye women, if you can.
I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold,
Or all the riches that the East doth hold.
My love is such that rivers cannot quench,
Nor ought but love from thee give recompense.
Thy love is such I can no way repay;
The heavens reward thee manifold, I pray.
Then while we live, in love let’s so persever,
That when we live no more, we may live ever.

 Busy old fool, unruly sun,
               Why dost thou thus,
Through windows, and through curtains call on us?
Must to thy motions lovers' seasons run?
               Saucy pedantic wretch, go chide
               Late school boys and sour prentices,
         Go tell court huntsmen that the king will ride,
         Call country ants to harvest offices,
Love, all alike, no season knows nor clime,
Nor hours, days, months, which are the rags of time.

               Thy beams, so reverend and strong
               Why shouldst thou think?
I could eclipse and cloud them with a wink,
But that I would not lose her sight so long;
               If her eyes have not blinded thine,
               Look, and tomorrow late, tell me,
         Whether both th' Indias of spice and mine
         Be where thou leftst them, or lie here with me.
Ask for those kings whom thou saw'st yesterday,
And thou shalt hear, All here in one bed lay.

               She's all states, and all princes, I,
               Nothing else is.
Princes do but play us; compared to this,
All honor's mimic, all wealth alchemy.
               Thou, sun, art half as happy as we,
               In that the world's contracted thus.
         Thine age asks ease, and since thy duties be
         To warm the world, that's done in warming us.
Shine here to us, and thou art everywhere;
This bed thy center is, these walls, thy sphere.

Take all my loves, my love, yea, take them all:
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call—
All mine was thine before thou hadst this more.
Then if for my love thou my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my love thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou this self deceivest
By wilful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb’ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love’s wrong than hate’s known injury.
    Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
    Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.

Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea
But sad mortality o’er-sways their power,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, how shall summer’s honey breath hold out
Against the wrackful siege of batt’ring days,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
Nor gates of steel so strong, but time decays?
O fearful meditation! where, alack,
Shall time’s best jewel from time’s chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
   O, none, unless this miracle have might,
   That in black ink my love may still shine bright.

Drink to me only with thine eyes, 
         And I will pledge with mine; 
Or leave a kiss but in the cup, 
         And I’ll not look for wine. 
The thirst that from the soul doth rise 
         Doth ask a drink divine; 
But might I of Jove’s nectar sup, 
         I would not change for thine. 

I sent thee late a rosy wreath, 
         Not so much honouring thee 
As giving it a hope, that there 
         It could not withered be. 
But thou thereon didst only breathe, 
         And sent’st it back to me; 
Since when it grows, and smells, I swear, 
         Not of itself, but thee.

How do we come to be here next to each other   
in the night
Where are the stars that show us to our love   
inevitable
Outside the leaves flame usual in darkness   
and the rain
falls cool and blessed on the holy flesh   
the black men waiting on the corner for   
a womanly mirage
I am amazed by peace
It is this possibility of you
asleep
and breathing in the quiet air


A glimpse through an interstice caught, 
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremark’d seated in a corner, 
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand, 
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest, 
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word. 


I love your lips when they’re wet with wine 
And red with a wild desire; 
I love your eyes when the lovelight lies 
Lit with a passionate fire. 
I love your arms when the warm white flesh 
Touches mine in a fond embrace; 
I love your hair when the strands enmesh 
Your kisses against my face. 

Not for me the cold, calm kiss 
Of a virgin’s bloodless love; 
Not for me the saint’s white bliss, 
Nor the heart of a spotless dove. 
But give me the love that so freely gives 
And laughs at the whole world’s blame, 
With your body so young and warm in my arms, 
It sets my poor heart aflame. 

So kiss me sweet with your warm wet mouth, 
Still fragrant with ruby wine, 
And say with a fervor born of the South 
That your body and soul are mine. 
Clasp me close in your warm young arms, 
While the pale stars shine above, 
And we’ll live our whole young lives away 
In the joys of a living love. 

I loved you first: but afterwards your love
Outsoaring mine, sang such a loftier song
As drowned the friendly cooings of my dove.
Which owes the other most? my love was long,
And yours one moment seemed to wax more strong;
I loved and guessed at you, you construed me
And loved me for what might or might not be –
Nay, weights and measures do us both a wrong.
For verily love knows not ‘mine’ or ‘thine;’
With separate ‘I’ and ‘thou’ free love has done,
For one is both and both are one in love:
Rich love knows nought of ‘thine that is not mine;’
Both have the strength and both the length thereof,
Both of us, of the love which makes us one.

You are like me, you will die too, but not today:   
you, incommensurate, therefore the hours shine:   
if I say to you “To you I say,” you have not been   
set to music, or broadcast live on the ghost   
radio, may never be an oil painting or
Old Master’s charcoal sketch: you are
a concordance of person, number, voice,
and place, strawberries spread through your name   
as if it were budding shrubs, how you remind me   
of some spring, the waters as cool and clear
(late rain clings to your leaves, shaken by light wind),   
which is where you occur in grassy moonlight:   
and you are a lily, an aster, white trillium
or viburnum, by all rights mine, white star   
in the meadow sky, the snow still arriving
from its earthwards journeys, here where there is   
no snow (I dreamed the snow was you,
when there was snow), you are my right,
have come to be my night (your body takes on   
the dimensions of sleep, the shape of sleep   
becomes you): and you fall from the sky
with several flowers, words spill from your mouth
in waves, your lips taste like the sea, salt-sweet (trees   
and seas have flown away, I call it
loving you): home is nowhere, therefore you,   
a kind of dwell and welcome, song after all,   
and free of any eden we can name

You have changed me already. I am a fireball
That is hurtling towards the sky to where you are
You can choose not to look up but I am a giant orange ball
That is throwing sparks upon your face
Oh look at them shake
Upon you like a great planet that has been murdered by change
O too this is so dramatic this shaking
Of my great planet that is bigger than you thought it would be
So you ran and hid
Under a large tree. She was graceful, I think
That tree although soon she will wither
Into ten black snakes upon your throat
And when she does I will be wandering as I always am
A graceful lady that is part museum
Of the voices of the universe everyone else forgets
I will hold your voice in a little box
And when you come upon me I won’t look back at you
You will feel a hand upon your heart while I place your voice back
Into the heart from where it came from
And I will not cry also
Although you will expect me to
I was wiser too than you had expected
For I knew all along you were mine

The shine on her buckle took precedence in sun
Her shine, I should say, could take me anywhere
It feels right to be up this close in tight wind
It feels right to notice all the shiny things about you
About you there is nothing I wouldn’t want to know
With you nothing is simple yet nothing is simpler
About you many good things come into relation
I think of proofs and grammar, vowel sounds, like
A is for knee socks, E for panties
I is for button down, O the blouse you wear
U is for hair clip, and Y your tight skirt
The music picks up again, I am the man I hope to be
The bright air hangs freely near your newly cut hair
It is so easy now to see gravity at work in your face
Easy to understand time, that dark process
To accept it as a beautiful process, your face

Things happen when you drink too much mescal.
One night, with not enough food in my belly,
he kept on buying.   I’m a girl who’ll fall
damn near in love with gratitude and, well, he
was hot and generous and so the least
that I could do was let him kiss me, hard
and soft and any way you want it, beast
and beauty, lime and salt—sweet Bacchus’ pards—
and when his friend showed up I felt so warm
and generous I let him kiss me too.
His buddy asked me if it was the worm
inside that makes me do the things I do.
I wasn’t sure which worm he meant, the one
I ate?   The one that eats at me alone?

My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,
and likes to rent her movies, for a treat.
It makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

The list of actresses who might employ
him as their slave is too long to repeat.
(My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,

Carole Lombard, Paulette Goddard, coy
Jean Arthur with that voice as dry as wheat ...)
It makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

Does he confess all this just to annoy
a loyal spouse? I know I can’t compete.
My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy.

And can’t a woman have her dreamboats? Boy,
I wouldn’t say my life is incomplete,
but some evening I could certainly enjoy

two hours with Cary Grant as my own toy.
I guess, though, we were destined not to meet.
My husband has a crush on Myrna Loy,
which makes some evenings harder to enjoy.

In an effort to get people to look
into each other’s eyes more,
and also to appease the mutes,
the government has decided
to allot each person exactly one hundred   
and sixty-seven words, per day.

When the phone rings, I put it to my ear   
without saying hello. In the restaurant   
I point at chicken noodle soup.
I am adjusting well to the new way.

Late at night, I call my long distance lover,   
proudly say I only used fifty-nine today.   
I saved the rest for you.

When she doesn’t respond,
I know she’s used up all her words,   
so I slowly whisper I love you
thirty-two and a third times.
After that, we just sit on the line   
and listen to each other breathe.

She goes out to hang the windchime
in her nightie and her work boots.
It’s six-thirty in the morning
and she’s standing on the plastic ice chest
tiptoe to reach the crossbeam of the porch,

windchime in her left hand,
hammer in her right, the nail
gripped tight between her teeth
but nothing happens next because
she’s trying to figure out
how to switch #1 with #3.

She must have been standing in the kitchen,
coffee in her hand, asleep,
when she heard it—the wind blowing
through the sound the windchime
wasn’t making
because it wasn’t there.

No one, including me, especially anymore believes
till death do us part,
but I can see what I would miss in leaving—
the way her ankles go into the work boots
as she stands upon the ice chest;
the problem scrunched into her forehead;
the little kissable mouth
with the nail in it.

Guy calls the doctor, says the wife’s   
contractions are five minutes apart.   
Doctor says, Is this her first child?
guy says, No, it’s her husband.

I promise to try to remember who   
I am. Wife gets up on one elbow,

says, I wanted to get married.   
It seemed a fulfillment of some

several things, a thing to be done.   
Even the diamond ring was some

thing like a quest, a thing they   
set you out to get and how insane

the quest is; how you have to turn   
it every way before you can even

think to seek it; this metaphysical   
refraining is in fact the quest. Who’d

have guessed? She sighs, I like   
the predictability of two, I like

my pleasures fully expected,   
when the expectation of them

grows patterned in its steady   
surprise. I’ve got my sweet

and tumble pat. Here on earth,   
I like to count upon a thing

like that. Thus explained   
the woman in contractions

to her lover holding on
the telephone for the doctor

to recover from this strange   
conversational turn. You say

you’re whom? It is a pleasure   
to meet you. She rolls her

eyes, but he’d once asked her   
Am I your first lover? and she’d   
said, Could be. Your face looks   
familiar. It’s the same type of

generative error. The grammar
of the spoken word will flip, let alone

the written, until something new is   
in us, and in our conversation.

For the first time, I listen to a lost
and secret recording of us
making love near-on ten years ago.

I recognize your voice, your sounds,
though if I knew no better,
I could be any man in any room.

After, the rising sounds of rising
and of dressing and once
as you step up close to the deck,

perhaps to pick up shoes, you sing
the chorus of Sunday Morning.
I call on you to hurry and we leave.

It does not end then; the tape rolls on.
A few late cars which sigh by
might have passed us walking away

triumphant, unaware we’ve left behind
this mop and mow mechanism
of silence to which we may never return.

He danced with tall grass
for a moment, like he was swaying
with a woman. Our gun barrels
glowed white-hot.
When I got to him,
a blue halo
of flies had already claimed him.
I pulled the crumbled photograph
from his fingers.
There's no other way
to say this: I fell in love.
The morning cleared again,
except for a distant mortar
& somewhere choppers taking off.
I slid the wallet into his pocket
& turned him over, so he wouldn't be
kissing the ground.

I didn’t fall in love. I fell through it:

Came out the other side moments later, hands full of matter, waking up from the dream of a bullet tearing through the middle of my body.

I no longer understand anything for longer than a long moment, or the time it takes to receive the shot.

This kind of gravity is like falling through a cloud, forgetting it all, and then being told about it later. On the day you fell through a cloud . . .

It must be true. If it were not, then when did these strands of silver netting attach to my hair?

The problem was finding that you were real and not just a dream of clouds.

If you weren’t real, I would address this letter to one of two entities: myself, or everyone else. The effect would be equivalent.

The act of falling happens in time. That is, it takes long enough for the falling to shear away from the moments before and the moments after, long enough for one to have thought I am falling. I have been falling. I continue to fall.

Falling through a ring, in this case, would not mean falling through the center of the annulus—a planet floats there. Falling through the ring means falling through the spaces between the objects that together make the ring.

On the way through, clasp your fists around the universe:

Nothing but ice-gravel.

But open your hands when you reach the other side. Quickly, before it melts.   

What did I leave you?

Methought I saw my late espoused saint
       Brought to me, like Alcestis, from the grave,
       Whom Jove's great son to her glad husband gave,
       Rescu'd from death by force, though pale and faint.
Mine, as whom wash'd from spot of child-bed taint
       Purification in the old Law did save,
       And such as yet once more I trust to have
       Full sight of her in Heaven without restraint,
Came vested all in white, pure as her mind;
       Her face was veil'd, yet to my fancied sight
       Love, sweetness, goodness, in her person shin'd
So clear as in no face with more delight.
       But Oh! as to embrace me she inclin'd,
       I wak'd, she fled, and day brought back my night.

Though beauty be the mark of praise, 
   And yours of whom I sing be such 
   As not the world can praise too much, 
Yet ’tis your virtue now I raise. 

A virtue, like allay, so gone 
   Throughout your form, as, though that move 
   And draw and conquer all men’s love, 
This sùbjects you to love of one. 

Wherein you triumph yet; because 
   ’Tis of yourself, and that you use 
   The noblest freedom, not to choose 
Against or faith or honor’s laws. 

But who should less expect from you, 
   In whom alone Love lives again? 
   By whom he is restored to men, 
And kept, and bred, and brought up true. 

His falling temples you have reared, 
   The withered garlands ta’en away; 
   His altars kept from the decay 
That envy wished, and nature feared; 

And on them burn so chaste a flame, 
   With so much loyalties’ expense, 
   As Love, t’ acquit such excellence, 
Is gone himself into your name. 

And you are he; the deity 
   To whom all lovers are designed 
   That would their better objects find; 
Among which faithful troop am I. 

Who, as an offspring at your shrine, 
   Have sung this hymn, and here entreat 
   One spark of your diviner heat 
To light upon a love of mine. 

Which, if it kindle not, but scant 
   Appear, and that to shortest view, 
   Yet give me leave t’ adore in you 
What I in her am grieved to want.

There is a hornet in the room   
and one of us will have to go   
out the window into the late   
August midafternoon sun. I
won. There is a certain challenge   
in being humane to hornets   
but not much. A launch draws   
two lines of wake behind it   
on the bay like a delta
with a melted base. Sandy   
billows, or so they look,
of feathery ripe heads of grass,   
an acid-yellow kind of
goldenrod glowing or glowering   
in shade. Rocks with rags   
of shadow, washed dust clouts   
that will never bleach.
It is not like this at all.   
The rapid running of the   
lapping water a hollow knock
of someone shipping oars:   
it’s eleven years since   
Frank sat at this desk and   
saw and heard it all   
the incessant water the   
immutable crickets only   
not the same: new needles   
on the spruce, new seaweed   
on the low-tide rocks   
other grass and other water   
even the great gold lichen   
on a granite boulder   
even the boulder quite   
literally is not the same


A day subtle and suppressed   
in mounds of juniper enfolding   
scratchy pockets of shadow
while bigness—rocks, trees, a stump—
stands shadowless in an overcast   
of ripe grass. There is nothing   
but shade, like the boggy depths   
of a stand of spruce, its resonance   
just the thin scream
of mosquitoes ascending.
Boats are light lumps on the bay   
stretching past erased islands   
to ocean and the terrible tumble   
and London (“rain persisting”)   
and Paris (“changing to rain”).   
Delicate day, setting the bright
of a young spruce against the cold
of an old one hung with unripe cones   
each exuding at its tip
gum, pungent, clear as a tear,   
a day tarnished and fractured   
as the quartz in the rocks
of a dulled and distant point,   
a day like a gull passing
with a slow flapping of wings   
in a kind of lope, without
breeze enough to shake loose   
the last of the fireweed flowers,
a faintly clammy day, like wet silk   
stained by one dead branch   
the harsh russet of dried blood.

It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.


It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.

It has been so wet stones glaze in moss;
everything blooms coldly.

I expect you. I thought one night it was you
at the base of the drive, you at the foot of the stairs,

you in a shiver of light, but each time
leaves in wind revealed themselves,

the retreating shadow of a fox, daybreak.
We expect you, cat and I, bluebirds and I, the stove.

In May we dreamed of wreaths burning on bonfires
over which young men and women leapt.

June efforts quietly.
I’ve planted vegetables along each garden wall

so even if spring continues to disappoint
we can say at least the lettuce loved the rain.

I have new gloves and a new hoe.
I practice eulogies. He was a hawk

with white feathered legs. She had the quiet ribs
of a salamander crossing the old pony post road.

Yours is the name the leaves chatter
at the edge of the unrabbited woods.

Cherry plums suck a week’s soak,
overnight they explode into the scenery of before
your touch. The curtains open on the end of our past.
Pink trumpets on the vines bare to the hummingbirds.
Butterflies unclasp from the purse of their couplings, they
light and open on the doubled hands of eucalyptus fronds.
They sip from the pistils for seven generations that bear
them through another tongue as the first year of our
punishing mathematic begins clicking the calendar
forward. They land like seasoned rocks on the
decks of the cliffs. They take another turn
on the spiral of life where the blossoms
blush & pale in a day of dirty dawn
where the ghost of you webs
your limbs through branches
of cherry plum. Rare bird,
extinct color, you stay in
my dreams in x-ray. In
rerun, the bone of you
stripping sweethearts
folds and layers the
shedding petals of
my grief into a
decayed holo-
gram—my
for ever
empty
art.

The day is gone, and all its sweets are gone! 
Sweet voice, sweet lips, soft hand, and softer breast, 
Warm breath, light whisper, tender semi-tone, 
Bright eyes, accomplish’d shape, and lang’rous waist! 
Faded the flower and all its budded charms, 
Faded the sight of beauty from my eyes, 
Faded the shape of beauty from my arms, 
Faded the voice, warmth, whiteness, paradise – 
Vanish’d unseasonably at shut of eve, 
When the dusk holiday – or holinight 
Of fragrant-curtain’d love begins to weave 
The woof of darkness thick, for hid delight, 
But, as I’ve read love’s missal through to-day, 
He’ll let me sleep, seeing I fast and pray. 







